Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 0, 1, 2, 3, 7, 20, 20]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
眭弘字孟，鲁国蕃人也。
少时好侠，斗鸡走马，长乃变节，从嬴公受《春秋》。
以明经为议郎，至符节令。
孝昭元凤三年正月，泰山、莱芜山南匈匈有数千人声，民视之，有大石自立，高丈五尺，大四十八围，入地深八尺，三石为足。
石立后有白乌数千下集其旁。
是时，昌邑有枯社木卧复生，又上林苑中大柳树断枯卧地，亦自立生，有虫食树叶成文字，曰 公孙病已立 ，孟推《春秋》之意，以为 石、柳，皆阴类，下民之象；泰山者，岱宗之岳，王者易姓告代之外。
今大石自立，僵柳复起，非人力所为，此当有从匹夫为天子者。
枯社木复生，故废之家公孙氏当复兴者也。
孟意亦不知其所在，即说曰： 先师董仲舒有言，虽有继体守文之君，不害圣人之受命。
汉家尧后，有传国之运。
汉帝宜谁差天下，求索贤人，禅以帝位，而退自封百里，如殷、周二王后，以承顺天命。
孟使友人内官长赐上此书。
时，昭帝幼，大将军霍光秉政，恶之，下其书廷尉。
奏赐、孟妄设袄言惑众，大逆不道，皆伏诛。
后五年，孝宣帝兴于民间，即位，征孟子为郎。
夏侯始昌，鲁人也。
通《五经》，以《齐诗》、《尚书》教授。
自董仲舒、韩婴死后，武帝得始昌，甚重之。
始昌明于阴阳，先言柏梁台灾曰，至期日果灾。
时，昌邑王以少子爱，上为选师，始昌为太傅。
年老，以寿终。
族子胜亦以儒显名。
夏侯胜字长公。
初，鲁共王分鲁西宁乡以封子节侯，别属大河，大河后更名东平，故胜为东平人。
translation: 
Suihong, courtesy name Meng, was from the state of Lu and Fan.
He was young, fashionable and chivalrous, and liked cockfighting and horse racing. Later, his style changed drastically and he studied "Spring and Autumn" with Ying Gong.
Because he was proficient in Confucian classics, he became a Yilang, and he reached the official position of Fuli Jieliang.
In the first month of the third year of Emperor Zhao Yuanfeng's reign, there was a roar like thousands of people coming together from the south of Laiwu Mountain in Mount Tai. When the people went to look, they saw a big stone standing up by itself. It was one foot to five feet high, as thick as forty-eight people surrounded it, and it was eight feet deep into the ground. There were three other stones as the feet of the big stone.
After the boulder stood on its own, thousands of white crows flew down and gathered around it.
At the same time, the dead trees in the Changyi Shrine and Temple came to life again, and the big willow tree that had been broken and withered and lying on the ground in Shanglin Garden actually stood up on its own and regained its vitality. There were many insects eating the leaves of the tree, and the leftover leaves were shaped like these words: Gongsun Bing has been established. Suihong then deduced the main idea of ​​"Spring and Autumn" and believed that: Stones and willows are both negative objects, symbolizing the common people at the bottom, while Mount Tai is the head of the mountains, and it is the place where emperors worshiped heaven to repay their merits after the change of dynasties.
Nowadays, big rocks stand on their own and dry willows come back to life. They are not made by human beings. Their creation shows that ordinary people will become emperors.
The resurrection of dead trees in the temple symbolizes the revival of the previously deposed Gongsun clan.
Suihong didn't know where the Gongsun family was, so he said: My ancestor Dong Zhongshu once said that even if there is a monarch who succeeds the emperor and abides by virtue, it will not prevent the saint from receiving orders from heaven.
The Han family is a descendant of Yao, and they are destined to pass on their surname to the country. Emperor Mo should tell the world about it.
He solicited talented people and abdicated the throne to him, while he abdicated and granted a land of hundreds of miles, just like the descendants of King Zhou of Yin, in order to obey the destiny.
Suihong asked his friend who was an internal official to write this book for him.
At that time, Emperor Zhao was still very young, and the general Huo Guang was in charge of the government. Huo Guang hated this very much, so he handed Suihong's memorial to Tingwei.
Huo Guang sent a memorial to Ci and Sui Hong, who deceived the public with their demonic words and committed treason. Both of them were sentenced to death.
Five years later, Emperor Xiaoxuan rose from the ranks of the people and ascended the throne, so he recruited Suihong's son as Lang.
Xiahou Shichang was from Lu.
Proficient in the Five Classics, he teaches Qi Shi and Shangshu.
After the deaths of Dong Zhongshu and Han Ying, Emperor Wu paid great attention to Xiahou Shichang.
Shichang knew the way of yin and yang. He once predicted the date when a fire would break out in Bailiang Terrace, and it turned out that a fire broke out on that day.
At that time, King Changyi was favored because he was the youngest. Emperor Wu chose a teacher for him, and Shichang became a tutor.
Shichang died of old age.
Xia Housheng, the son of his brother, was also famous as a Confucian scholar.
Xiahou Sheng's courtesy name is Chang Gong.
When the King of the Communist Party of Lu granted Ningxiang in western Lu to his son Jiehou, Ningxiang belonged to Dahe. Dahe was later renamed Shuping, so Xiahou Sheng was from Shuping.
summary:
Suihong, courtesy name Meng, was from the state of Lu. Initially fond of cockfighting and horse racing, he later transformed his character and studied the "Spring and Autumn" with Ying Gong. Through his mastery of Confucian classics, he became a Yilang and reached the position of Fuli Jieliang. In the first month of the third year of Emperor Zhao's Yuanfeng reign, a great roar was heard south of Laiwu Mountain in Mount Tai. A large stone stood up by itself, measuring one to five feet high, as thick as forty-eight arm spans, and eight feet deep into the ground, with three other stones serving as its feet. Thousands of white crows gathered around it. Simultaneously, dead trees in the Changyi Shrine revived, and a broken willow in Shanglin Garden stood up and regained life, with insects eating its leaves into shapes resembling the words "Gongsun Bing has been established." Suihong interpreted these events through the "Spring and Autumn," concluding that stones and willows symbolized common people, while Mount Tai represented the site of imperial ceremonies. He argued that these phenomena indicated commoners would become emperors and the deposed Gongsun clan would revive. He advocated for the Han emperor to abdicate in favor of a worthy successor. His friend, an internal official, submitted this memorial. Since Emperor Zhao was young and General Huo Guang governed, Huo Guang was angered and had Suihong and his friend executed for treason. Five years later, when Emperor Xiaoxuan rose from the people to the throne, he recruited Suihong's son as a Lang. Xiahou Shichang, from Lu, was proficient in the Five Classics and taught Qi Shi and Shangshu. After Dong Zhongshu and Han Ying died, Emperor Wu valued him greatly. Shichang understood yin and yang, once predicting the exact date of a fire at Bailiang Terrace. He served as tutor to King Changyi and died of old age. His nephew Xiahou Sheng, courtesy name Changgong, was also a renowned Confucian scholar. Xiahou Sheng lost his father young but studied diligently, learning "Shang Shu" and "Hong Fan's Five Elements" from Shichang, and later studied under Jian Qing and Ouyang. He was sophisticated and learned from multiple teachers.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
胜少孤，好学，从始昌受《尚书》及《洪范五行传》，说灾异。
后事蕳卿，又从欧阳氏问。
为学精孰，所问非一师也。
善说礼服。
征为博士、光禄大夫。
会昭帝崩，昌邑王嗣立，数出。
胜当乘舆前谏曰： 天久阴而不雨，臣下有谋上者，陛下出欲何之？
王怒，谓胜为袄言，缚以属吏。
吏白大将军霍光，光不举法。
是时，光与车骑将军张安世谋欲废昌邑王。
光让安世以为泄语，安世实不言。
乃召问胜，胜对言： 在《洪范传》曰 皇之不极，厥罚常阴，时则下人有伐上者 ，恶察察言，故云臣下有谋。
光、安世大惊，以此益重经术士。
后十余日，光卒与安世白太后，废昌邑王，尊立宣帝。
光以为群臣奏事东宫，太后省政，宜知经术，白令胜用《尚书》授太后。
迁长信少府，赐爵关内侯，以与谋废立，定策安宗庙，益千户。
宣帝初即位，欲褒先帝，诏丞相御史曰： 朕以眇身，蒙遗德，承圣业，奉宗庙，夙夜惟念。
孝武皇帝躬仁谊，厉威武，北征匈奴，单于远循，南平氐羌、昆明、瓯骆两越，东定薉、貉、朝鲜，廓地斥境，立郡县，百蛮率服，款塞自至，珍贡陈于宗庙；协音律，造乐歌，荐上帝，封太山，立明堂，改正朔，易服色；明开圣绪，尊贤显功，兴灭继绝，褒周之后；备天地之礼，广道术之路。
上天报况，符瑞并应，宝鼎出，白麟获，海效巨鱼，神人并见，山称万岁。
功德茂盛，不能尽宣，而庙乐未称，朕甚悼焉。
其与列侯、二千石、博士议。
translation: 
Xia Housheng lost his father when he was young, but he was very studious. He studied "Shang Shu" and "Hong Fan's Five Elements" with Shi Chang, and discussed disasters and strange phenomena.
Later, he studied under Jian Qing and then studied under Ouyang.
Xia Housheng was sophisticated and proficient in learning, and he studied under more than one person.
Xia Housheng is good at telling the ceremony of dress.
He was recruited as a doctor and Guanglu doctor.
At this time, Emperor Zhao died and King Changyi succeeded to the throne. King Changyi often traveled.
One time, Xia Housheng blocked the carriage of the King of Changyi and came forward to remonstrate: "It has been overcast for a long time without raining, which may lead to some ministers plotting against the emperor. Where else is your majesty going to go?"
The king of Changyi was furious and said that Xia Housheng was deceiving the public with his evil words, so he tied him up and handed him over to the officials.
The official reported the incident to the general Huo Guang, but Huo Guang did not punish Xiahou Sheng.
At this time, Huo Guang and the cavalry general Zhang Anshizheng were discussing how to depose the king of Changyi.
Huo Guang blamed Zhang Anshi for leaking the truth, but in fact An Shi did not leak it.
So Xia Housheng was interrogated, and Xia Housheng replied: "The Biography of Hong Fan" says that if an emperor does not rule according to the rules, he will be punished by the constant evil. At this time, there will be a crusade against him by the subordinates. It is just because the taboo is so obvious, so it is only said that there are ministers plotting against the emperor.
Huo Guang and An Shi were both shocked, and they valued Confucian scholars even more from then on.
More than ten days later, Huo Guang and An Shi finally petitioned the Queen Mother to depose King Changyi and establish Emperor Xuan.
Huo Guang believed that the ministers reported political affairs to the East Palace and the Queen Mother inspected government affairs, so they should understand the classics, so he asked Xia Housheng to teach the Queen Mother "Shangshu".
After Xiahou's victory, he was appointed as the Shaofu of Changxin and was given the title of Marquis of Guannei. He participated in the planning of the abolition of the establishment and the major decision-making of the ancestral temple and the country. Later, he was added to the food fiefdom of a thousand households.
As soon as Emperor Xuan came to the throne, he wanted to praise Emperor Wu's achievements. Prime Minister Xuan Shao said: In my humble status, I have received the kindness of my ancestors, inherited the saint's career, and worshiped the ancestral temple. I dare not forget it day and night.
Emperor Xiaowu himself was benevolent and righteous, and he was mighty and swift. He went north to conquer the Xiongnu, and the Chanyu fled far away. He went south to pacify Diqiang, Kunming, and Ouluo. He went east to pacify Ling, Raccoon, and Korea. He opened up our territory and established prefectures and counties. All barbarian countries also surrendered. Well-known envoys came uninvited. Precious tributes were displayed in the ancestral temple. Harmonious rhythms, Transform the songs of Yuefu, recommend them to heaven, seal Mount Tai, build Mingtang, change the month of Jianyin as the first year of the year, and change the colors of chariots and horses for sacrifice; create the achievements of saints, respect the virtuous and reward the meritorious, revive the decayed princes and noble families, praise the descendants of the Zhou Dynasty; sacrifice to heaven and earth with complete and grand gifts, and make the road of Taoism more bright and upright.
God also rewarded him. Various auspicious symbols and auspicious signs were fulfilled. A treasure tripod was unearthed from the ground, a white lin was obtained, a big fish was caught from the sea, gods and saints appeared, and even the mountains were saying long live.
His merits and virtues are so vast that they cannot be mentioned here. However, his temple music does not match his great achievements. I really feel sad for this.
So I brought this matter up to discuss with the princes, Erqianshi, and the wise men.
summary:
When King Changyi succeeded Emperor Zhao, he frequently traveled. Xiahou Sheng once blocked the king's carriage to remonstrate, warning that prolonged overcast weather without rain indicated ministers plotting against the emperor. The king was furious and had him bound, but Huo Guang did not punish him. When Huo Guang and Zhang Anshi were discussing deposing the king, Xiahou Sheng explained his prediction came from the "Hong Fan" biography, which stated that when an emperor rules improperly, subordinates will rebel. Huo Guang and Anshi were impressed and valued Confucian scholars more thereafter. They eventually petitioned the Queen Mother to depose King Changyi and establish Emperor Xuan. Xiahou Sheng was appointed Shaofu of Changxin and given the title of Marquis of Guannei.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
于是群臣大议廷中，皆曰： 宣如诏书。
长信少府胜独曰： 武帝虽有攘四夷广土斥境之功，然多杀士众，竭民财力，奢泰亡度，天下虚耗，百姓流离，物故者半。
蝗虫大起，赤地数千里，或人民相食，畜积至今未复。
亡德泽于民，不宜为立庙乐。
公卿共难胜曰： 此诏书也。
胜曰： 诏书不可用也。
人臣之谊，宜直言正论，非苟阿意顺指。
议已出口，虽死不悔。
于是丞相义，御史大夫广明劾奏胜非议诏书，毁先帝，不道，及丞相长史黄霸阿纵胜，不举劾，俱下狱。
有司遂请尊孝武帝庙为世宗庙，奏《盛德》、《文始》、《五行》之舞，天下世世献纳，以明盛德。
武帝巡狩所幸郡国凡四十九，皆立庙，如高祖、太宗焉。
胜、霸既久系，霸欲从胜受经，胜辞以罪死。霸曰：  朝闻道，夕死可矣 。
胜贤其言，遂授之。
系再更冬，讲论不怠。
至四年夏，关东四十九郡同日地动，或山崩，坏城郭室屋，杀六千余人。
上乃素服，避正殿，遣使者吊问吏民，赐死者棺钱。
下诏曰： 盖灾异者，天地之戒也。
朕承洪业，托士民之上，未能和群生。
曩者地震北海、琅邪，坏祖宗庙，朕甚惧焉。其与列侯、中二千石博问术士，有以应变，补朕之阙，毋有所讳。
因大赦。胜出为谏大夫、给事中，霸为扬州剌吏。
胜为人质朴守正，简易亡威仪。
见时谓上为君，误相字于前，上亦以是亲信之。
translation: 
So the ministers had a heated discussion in the court, and they all said: It should be like the imperial edict.
Xia Housheng, the Shaofu of Ganmu Duchangxin, said: Although Emperor Wu did have the merit of defeating the barbarians and opening up the territory, he killed many ministers and people, exhausting the people's financial resources and squandering them. The world was very weak, the people were displaced, and more than half of them died.
Locust plagues spread across thousands of miles of bare land, and tragedies of cannibalism even occurred. The original reserve accumulation has not yet been restored.
Therefore, Emperor Wu was not benevolent to the people and could not establish another temple music for him.
The ministers all criticized Xia Housheng and said, "This is Shao Shu."
Xia Housheng said: This Shao calligraphy cannot be used.
As a minister, you should tell the truth and not bend your will to suit other people's wishes.
I've said what I want to say, and I won't regret it even if I die.
So Prime Minister Yi and Yushi Guangming impeached Xia Housheng for talking nonsense about Shaoshu, slandering the late emperor, and treason. Moreover, Prime Minister Huang Ba also refused to impeach Xia Housheng because he indulged Xia Housheng, and both of them were thrown into prison.
So the officials in charge asked the Temple of Emperor Wu to be revered as the Temple of Sejong, and perform music and dance performances of "Shengde", "Wenshi", and "Five Elements", and worship them for generations to come to highlight the virtues.
The forty-nine counties that Emperor Wu visited also had temples, just like Gaozu and Taizong.
Xia Housheng and Huang Ba have been imprisoned for a long time. Huang Ba wanted to learn Confucianism from Xia Housheng, but Xia Housheng rejected him on the grounds that he had been sentenced to death. Huang Ba said: If you hear the Tao in the morning, you will die in the evening.
Xia Housheng thought he spoke very well, so he taught him Confucian classics.
Another winter passed like this, but the lectures remained the same.
In the summer of the fourth year of Emperor Xuan's reign, there was an earthquake or landslide in the forty-nine counties of Guandong on the same day. City walls and houses collapsed, and more than 6,000 people died.
Emperor Xuan wore plain clothes and did not attend court in the main hall. He sent ministers to express condolences to officials and people, and gave the deceased money to pay for his coffin.
Emperor Xuan issued an edict saying: The occurrence of disasters is a warning from heaven and earth to us.
I inherited the achievements of my ancestors and placed myself above the people, but I did not let them live a good life.
In the past, there was an earthquake in Beihai and Langye, which damaged the ancestral temple. I was also very afraid. All the learned men among the princes and the middle two thousand stones, if you can find a way to deal with the disaster and make up for my shortcomings, don't be afraid.
So a general amnesty was granted to the whole country. Xia Housheng was pardoned and served as an admonition to the officials, and Huang Ba was appointed as the assassin of Yangzhou.
Xia Housheng was a simple and upright man, approachable but not dignified.
When meeting Emperor Xuan, he addressed Emperor Xuan as king, and addressed his colleagues by names in front of Emperor Xuan. These practices were not etiquette, but Emperor Xuan became closer and more trusting to him because of these practices.
summary:
When Emperor Xuan wanted to honor Emperor Wu's achievements, Xiahou Sheng opposed, arguing that although Emperor Wu defeated barbarians and expanded territory, he killed many ministers, exhausted resources, and caused widespread suffering and cannibalism. The ministers impeached Xiahou Sheng for slandering the late emperor, and he was imprisoned. After an earthquake killed over six thousand people, Emperor Xuan issued a general amnesty, and Xiahou Sheng was pardoned and served as an admonition official. He was known for his forthrightness, addressing the emperor as "king" and calling colleagues by name in court. Emperor Xuan trusted him for this honesty. Xiahou Sheng died in office at ninety, and the Queen Mother mourned him for five days.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
尝见，出道上语，上闻而让胜，胜曰： 陛下所言善，臣故扬之。
尧言布于天下，至今见诵。
臣以为可传，故传耳。
朝廷每有大议，上知胜素直，谓曰： 先生通正言，无惩前事。
胜复为长信少府，迁太子太傅。
受诏撰《尚书》、《论语说》，赐黄金百斤。
年九十卒官，赐冢茔，葬平陵。
太后赐钱二百万，为胜素服五日，以报师傅之恩，儒者以为荣。
始，胜每讲授，常谓诸生曰： 士病不明经术，经术苟明，其取青紫如俯拾地芥耳。
学经不明，不如归耕。
胜从父子建字长卿，自师事胜及欧阳高，左右采获，又从《五经》诸儒问与《尚书》相出入者，牵引以次章句，具文饰说。
胜非之曰： 建所谓章句小儒，破碎大道。
建亦非胜为学疏略，难以应敌。
建卒自颛门名经，为议郎、博士，至太子少傅。
胜子兼为左曹太中大夫，孙尧至长信少府、司农、鸿胪，曾孙蕃郡守、州牧、长乐少府。
胜同产弟子赏为梁内史，梁内史子定国为豫章太守。
而建子千秋亦为少府、太子少傅。
京房字君明，东郡顿丘人也。
治《易》，事梁人焦延寿。
延寿字赣。
赣贫贱，以好学得幸梁王。梁王共其资用，令极意学。
既成，为郡史，察举补小黄令。
以候司先知奸邪，盗贼不得发。
爱养吏民，化行县中。
举最当迁，三老官属上书愿留赣，有诏许增秩留，卒于小黄。
赣常曰： 得我道以亡身者，必京生也。
其说长于灾变，分六十四卦，更直日用事，以风雨寒温为候：各有占验。
translation: 
One time after Xiahou Sheng was received, he went out to tell others what Emperor Xuan had said. Emperor Xuan heard about it and blamed Xiahou Sheng. Xiahou Sheng replied: Your Majesty said it very well, so I will publicize it.
Yao's words spread throughout the world and are still recited today.
I thought these words could be spread, so they spread.
The last time the court had something important to discuss, because Emperor Xuan had always known that Xia Housheng was very forthright, Emperor Xuan would say to Xia Housheng: Sir, please speak frankly, don't be afraid because of past events.
Xia Housheng once again became the Shaofu of Changxin, and was promoted to Prince Taifu.
He was ordered by Emperor Xuan to write "Shangshu" and "The Analects of Confucius" and was given a hundred pounds of gold.
Xia Housheng died in office when he was ninety years old. He was given a cemetery and buried in Pingling.
The Queen Mother gave him two million and wore mourning clothes for Xiahou Sheng for five days to repay his master's kindness. Confucian scholars were proud of it.
In the past, Xia Housheng often told his students in lectures: Confucian scholars are most afraid of not understanding the classics. If they can master the classics, getting a high official will be as easy as picking up grass on the ground.
If you are not good at studying the classics, you might as well go home and farm.
Among the children of Xia Housheng's uncles, there was a man named Jian named Changqing. Since he became a teacher of Xia Housheng and Ouyang Gao, he often asked questions about doubts. He also asked Confucian scholars who studied the "Five Classics" and asked them about the differences from "Shang Shu".
Xia Housheng disagreed with this. He said: Xia Houjian is the kind of little Confucian who only seeks words and sentences, and has made Confucianism and Taoism into pieces.
Xiahou Jian was also dissatisfied with Xiahou Sheng. He thought that Xiahou Sheng was not knowledgeable and could not cope with the enemy.
Xiahou Jian finally established his own school in Confucian classics. He served as Dr. Yilang and became the prince's young master.
Xiahou Sheng's son Xiahou also served as Zuocao Taizhong's doctor, his grandson Xiahou Yao served as the official of Changxin Shaofu, Sinong, and Honglu, and his great grandson Xiahoufan served as county governor, prefectural pastor, and Changle Shaofu.
Xiahou Shang, the son of Xiahou Sheng's half-brother, became Liang Neishi, and Xiahou Shang's son Dingguo became the prefect of Yuzhang.
Xiahou Jian's son Qianqiu also served as the Shaofu and Prince Shaofu.
Jingfang, whose courtesy name is Junming, was born in Dunqiu, Shujun County.
He studied "The Book of Changes" and studied under Jiao Yanshou from Liang Dynasty.
The word for longevity is Gan.
Jiao Gan was born in a poor family, but because of his love of learning, he received courtesy from the King of Liang. The King of Liang provided him with the necessary expenses so that he could study with peace of mind.
After completing his studies, Jiao Gan served as county historian and was selected to replace Xiaohuang County Magistrate.
Because Jiao Gan could often know evil things in advance, the thieves did not dare to commit crimes.
Jiao Gan also cared deeply about lower-level officials and ordinary people, so the atmosphere in Xiaohuang County was very good.
As a result, his political performance scored very high in the examination, and according to regulations, he should be promoted to another official. However, the three elders of Xiaohuang County wrote a letter expressing their hope to keep Jiao Gan. As a result, the edict was issued to allow Xiaohuang County to keep Jiao Gan and increase his salary. Jiao Gan died in Xiaohuang County.
Jiao Gan often said: The person who can get my way but die because of it must be Jingfang.
Jiao Gan was the best at talking about disasters. He connected the sixty-four hexagrams with things to be done every day, and used meteorological changes such as wind, rain, cold and temperature as symptoms, each with its own calculation and fulfillment.
summary:
Jingfang, courtesy name Junming, studied "The Book of Changes" under Jiao Yanshou. Jiao Gan, his teacher, was known for predicting evil events and governing Xiaohuang County well. Jingfang was particularly skilled in connecting hexagrams with daily events and using meteorological changes as symptoms. During Emperor Yuan's reign, he predicted events accurately and was frequently consulted. He warned about disasters and criticized the appointment of flattering officials like Shi Xian. Jingfang recommended implementing a system to inspect officials' performance, but faced opposition from powerful ministers. He was eventually appointed prefect of Wei County but feared being isolated from the emperor. After sending several sealed memorials warning about yin energy overwhelming yang and predicting disasters, he was imprisoned and executed at age forty-one.

Chunk 7: 
original: 
房去月余，竟征下狱。
初，淮阳宪王舅张博从房受学，以女妻房。
房与相亲，每朝见，辄为博道其语，以为上意欲用房议，而群臣恶其害己，故为众所排。
博曰： 淮阳王上亲弟，敏达好政，欲为国忠。
今欲令王上书求入朝，得佐助房。
房曰： 得无不可？
博曰： 前楚王朝荐士，何为不可？
房曰： 中书令石显、尚书令五鹿君相与合同，巧佞之人也，事县官十余年；及丞相韦侯，皆久亡补于民，可谓亡功矣。
此尤不欲行考功者也。
淮阳王即朝见，劝上行考功，事善；不然，但言丞相、中书令任事久而不治，可休丞相，以御史大夫郑弘代之，迁中书令置他官，以钩盾令徐立代之，如此，房考功事得施行矣。
博具从房记诸所说灾异事，因令房为淮阳王作求朝奏草，皆持柬与淮阳王。
石显微司具知之，以房亲近，未敢言。
及房出守郡，显告房与张博通谋，非谤政治，归恶天子，诖误诸侯王，语在《宪王传》。
初，房见道幽、厉事，出为御史大夫郑弘言之。
房、博皆弃市，弘坐免为庶人。
房本姓李，推律自定为京氏，死时年四十一。
翼奉字少君，东海下邳人也。
治《齐诗》，与萧望之、匡衡同师。
三人经术皆明，衡为后进，望之施之政事，而奉惇学不仕，好律历阴阳之占。
元帝初即位，诸儒荐之，征待诏宦者署，数言事宴见，天子敬焉。
时，平昌侯王临以宣帝外属侍中，称诏欲从奉学其术。
奉不肯与言，而上封事曰： 臣闻之于师，治道要务，在知下之邪正。
translation: 
More than a month after Jingfang left, he was finally thrown into prison.
At the beginning, Zhang Bo, the uncle of King Xian of Huaiyang, studied with Jingfang and married his daughter to Jingfang.
Jingfang was very close to Zhang Bo. After every court meeting, he always told Zhang Bo what the emperor said, thinking that the emperor originally wanted to adopt Jingfang's opinions, but the ministers were afraid that this would harm their own interests, so Jingfang was ostracized by everyone.
Zhang Bo said: King Huaiyang is the emperor's younger brother. He is agile and knowledgeable, likes to engage in politics, and wants to be loyal to the country.
Now I would like to ask the King of Huaiyang to write a letter requesting to join the court to assist you.
Jingfang said: I'm afraid not.
Zhang Bo said: In the past, the king of Chu had recommended scholars to the court, why couldn't the king of Huaiyang do the same?
Jingfang said: Zhongshu Ling Shi Xian and Shangshu Ling Wulu Chongzong colluded with each other. They are treacherous villains who have served the emperor for more than ten years. There is also Prime Minister Wei Hou. They have not done anything good for the people for a long time, so they have no merit.
These are the people who are particularly unwilling to implement the system of inspecting the performance of officials.
It would be best if the King of Huaiyang could come to court and advise the emperor to implement the system of inspecting officials. If that doesn't work, just say that the prime minister and Zhongshu Ling have been doing things for a long time but have not managed them well. You can remove the current prime minister and replace him with the imperial censor Zheng Hong. Let the current Zhongshu Ling be reassigned to another official position and replace him with Goudun Ling Xu Li. In this way, my suggestion of inspecting the officials can be implemented.
Zhang Bo completely listened to what Jingfang said about various disasters and strange events, so he asked Jingfang to write a memorial for the King of Huaiyang to meet the emperor, and wrote all these to the King of Huaiyang.
Shi Xian secretly investigated, and he knew all these things, but because Jingfang was close to the emperor, he did not dare to say anything.
When Jingfang became the county governor, Shi Xian falsely accused Jingfang of conspiring with Zhang Bo to slander the government, speak ill of the emperor, and implicate the princes and princes. This has been mentioned in the "Biography of King Xian".
At first, Jingfang was summoned to talk about the affairs of King You and King Li. After he came out, he told Zheng Hong, the imperial censor.
Jingfang and Zhang Bo were both executed in Zha City and their bodies were displayed on the street. Zheng Hong was also implicated and was dismissed from office and became a civilian.
Jingfang's original surname was Li, but he later changed his surname to Jing according to Lu's own calculation. He was only forty-one when he died.
Yi Feng, courtesy name Shaojun, was from Xiapi, Donghai.
He studied "Qi Shi" and studied under the same teacher as Xiao Wangzhi and Kuang Heng.
The three of them were all proficient in the classics. Kuang Heng was a junior and hoped to apply the classics to political affairs, while Yi Feng was diligent in studying and did not want to be an official, and liked the art of calendar yin and yang divination.
Not long after Emperor Yuan came to the throne, many Confucian scholars recommended him. He was conscripted into the office of eunuchs waiting for edicts. He wrote many times to express his opinions and was summoned to the emperor in his spare time. The emperor respected him very much.
At this time, Pingchang Hou Wanglin, because he was a relative of Emperor Xuan, served as his minister, and said that he would study Confucian classics with Yi Feng.
Yi Feng refused to talk to him, so he wrote a sealed memorial saying: I heard from my teacher that the most important thing in treating people is to know the good and evil of people.
summary:
Yi Feng, courtesy name Shaojun, studied "Qi Shi" and was diligent in learning, preferring calendar and yin-yang divination to officialdom. Emperor Yuan respected him greatly. Yi Feng wrote extensively about using the twelve laws to understand human emotions and predict disasters. He warned about the dangers of powerful relatives and advocated for frugality, criticizing excessive palace construction. He proposed moving the capital to Chengzhou to reform institutions and reduce expenses. Although Emperor Yuan found his views unusual, Yi Feng became a doctor and admonishing official, dying in old age.

Chunk 20: 
original: 
朕甚俱焉，战战兢兢，唯恐陵夷。
惟汉兴至今二百载，历纪开元，皇天降非材之右，汉国再获受命之符，朕之不德，曷敢不通夫受天之元命，必与天下自新。
其大赦天下，以建平二年为太初元年，号曰陈圣刘太平皇帝。
漏刻以百二十为度。
布告天下，使明知之。
后月余，上疾自若。
贺良等复欲妄变政事，大臣争以为不可许。
贺良等奏言大臣皆不知天命，宜退丞相御史，以解光、李寻辅政。
上以其言亡验，遂下贺良等吏，而下诏曰： 朕获保宗庙，为政不德，变异屡仍，恐惧战栗，未知所繇。
待诏贺良等建言改元易号，增益漏刻，可以永安国家。
朕信道不笃，过听其言，几为百姓获福。
卒无嘉应，久旱为灾。
以问贺良等，对当复改制度，皆背经谊，违圣制，不合时宜。
夫过而不改，是为过矣。
六月甲子诏书，非赦令，它皆蠲除之。
贺良等反道惑众，奸态当穷竟。
皆下狱，光禄勋平当、光禄大夫毛莫如与御史中丞、廷尉杂治，当贺良等执左道，乱朝政，倾覆国家，诬罔主上，不道。
贺良等皆伏诛。
寻及解光减死一等，徙敦煌郡。
赞曰：幽赞神明，通合天人之道者，莫著乎《易》、《春秋》。
然子赣犹云 夫子之文章可得而闻，夫子之言性与天道不可得而闻 已矣。
汉兴，推阴阳言灾异者，孝武时有董仲舒、夏侯始昌；昭、宣则眭孟、夏侯胜；元、成则京房、翼奉、刘向、谷永；哀、平则李寻、田终术。
此其纳说时君著明者也。
察其所言，仿佛一端。
假经设谊，依托象类，或不免乎 亿则屡中 。
translation: 
I am very worried and trembling, fearing that the country will gradually weaken and perish.
Thinking that it has been two hundred years since the rise of the Han Dynasty, the fortune of the country has begun again, the emperor has given me grace to protect me, and the country has regained the fortune to bear the destiny of heaven. Although I have no saintliness, how dare I not obey and accept the great destiny of heaven. We must work with the people of the world to eliminate the old and establish the new.
I hereby decree a general amnesty for the whole world, and regard the second year of Jianping as the first year of Taichu. My title is Emperor Chen Sheng and Liu Taiping.
The scale of the clepsydra is divided into one hundred and twenty degrees.
Announce it to the world and let everyone know clearly.
More than a month passed after this, and the emperor was still ill.
He Liang and others wanted to make random changes in political affairs, but the ministers advised the emperor that they could not allow it.
He Liang and others reported that the ministers did not know the destiny, so they should dismiss the prime minister and censor, and use Jie Guang and Li Xun to assist the government.
Because what they said before had no effect, the emperor handed He Liang and others over to the law enforcement officials and issued an edict saying: I can succeed to the throne and protect the ancestral temple, but my governance is poor and disasters occur frequently. I am worried and afraid, and I don't know what to do.
After the edict, He Liang and others suggested that changing the name of the Yuan Dynasty and increasing the scale of the clepsydra would make the country more stable for a long time.
I did not believe in the teachings of the saints and misunderstood their words, hoping to seek blessings for the people.
But in the end there was no good effect, and the long-term drought caused disaster.
He questioned He Liang and others about this, and they replied that the system should be changed again. Everything he said deviated from the meaning of the scriptures, violated the system of the saints, and was inappropriate for the times.
Making a mistake and refusing to correct it is the real mistake.
All the edicts issued on Jiazi Day in June were abolished except for the Amnesty Day Order.
He Liang and others have deviated from the truth and confuse the public with their evil words. Their crimes must be thoroughly investigated.
They were all imprisoned. Guanglu Xunping, Guanglu doctor Mao Moru, Yushi Zhongcheng and Tingwei jointly tried the case and sentenced He Liang and others to use evil ways to disrupt the government, subvert the country, deceive the emperor and commit treason.
He Liang and others were all killed.
Li Xun's crime was reduced to one level and he was exiled to Dunhuang County.
Praising: "Book of Changes" and "Spring and Autumn" should be recommended first among those who can profoundly explain the supernatural powers of gods and understand the way of heaven and man.
However, Zigong still said: We can hear the Master's articles, but we cannot hear the Master's remarks about sex and the way of heaven.
Since the founding of the Han Dynasty, those who have speculated on the differences between yin and yang in discussing disasters include Dong Zhongshu and Xiahou Shichang during the reign of Emperor Xiaowu; Suimeng and Xiahou Sheng during the reigns of Emperors Zhao and Xuan; Jingfang, Yifeng, Liu Xiang, and Gu Yong during the reigns of Emperors Yuan and Cheng; and Li Xun and Tian Zhongshu during the reigns of Emperors Ai and Ping.
These are some of the famous figures whose theories were adopted by the monarchs of the time.
Looking at what they said, it seems to be exactly the same.
Under the guise of borrowing scriptures and relying on anomalies in celestial phenomena to discuss the gains and losses of political affairs, sometimes it is unavoidable to make repeated guesses.
summary:
Li Xun, courtesy name Zichang, studied "Shangshu" and liked theories of disasters and strange phenomena. He served under various officials and warned about impending floods and chaos. During Emperor Ai's reign, he was summoned to discuss disasters and advised restraining relatives, selecting virtuous officials, and following seasonal orders. He later supported Gan Zhongke's forged texts about the Han dynasty's fate declining, advocating for changing the reign name to prolong the dynasty. Emperor Ai, ill for a long time, agreed and issued an edict changing the reign name to Taichu. When this had no effect, He Liang and others were executed for treason, and Li Xun was exiled to Dunhuang County. The historian's commentary notes that since the Han dynasty's founding, those who discussed disasters and yin-yang differences included Dong Zhongshu, Xiahou Shichang, Suimeng, Xiahou Sheng, Jingfang, Yifeng, Liu Xiang, Gu Yong, Li Xun, and Tian Zhongshu. Their theories were sometimes adopted by rulers but often led to imprisonment or death. Suimeng was brutally killed, and Li Xun was exiled—warnings for scholars who spoke frankly about current affairs, offending powerful ministers and meeting tragic ends.

