Chunk 0: 
original: 
眭弘字孟，鲁国蕃人也。
少时好侠，斗鸡走马，长乃变节，从嬴公受《春秋》。
以明经为议郎，至符节令。
孝昭元凤三年正月，泰山、莱芜山南匈匈有数千人声，民视之，有大石自立，高丈五尺，大四十八围，入地深八尺，三石为足。
石立后有白乌数千下集其旁。
是时，昌邑有枯社木卧复生，又上林苑中大柳树断枯卧地，亦自立生，有虫食树叶成文字，曰 公孙病已立 ，孟推《春秋》之意，以为 石、柳，皆阴类，下民之象；泰山者，岱宗之岳，王者易姓告代之外。
今大石自立，僵柳复起，非人力所为，此当有从匹夫为天子者。
枯社木复生，故废之家公孙氏当复兴者也。
孟意亦不知其所在，即说曰： 先师董仲舒有言，虽有继体守文之君，不害圣人之受命。
汉家尧后，有传国之运。
汉帝宜谁差天下，求索贤人，禅以帝位，而退自封百里，如殷、周二王后，以承顺天命。
孟使友人内官长赐上此书。
时，昭帝幼，大将军霍光秉政，恶之，下其书廷尉。
奏赐、孟妄设袄言惑众，大逆不道，皆伏诛。
后五年，孝宣帝兴于民间，即位，征孟子为郎。
夏侯始昌，鲁人也。
通《五经》，以《齐诗》、《尚书》教授。
自董仲舒、韩婴死后，武帝得始昌，甚重之。
始昌明于阴阳，先言柏梁台灾曰，至期日果灾。
时，昌邑王以少子爱，上为选师，始昌为太傅。
年老，以寿终。
族子胜亦以儒显名。
夏侯胜字长公。
初，鲁共王分鲁西宁乡以封子节侯，别属大河，大河后更名东平，故胜为东平人。
translation: 
Suihong, courtesy name Meng, was from the state of Lu and Fan.
He was young, fashionable and chivalrous, and liked cockfighting and horse racing. Later, his style changed drastically and he studied "Spring and Autumn" with Ying Gong.
Because he was proficient in Confucian classics, he became a Yilang, and he reached the official position of Fuli Jieliang.
In the first month of the third year of Emperor Zhao Yuanfeng's reign, there was a roar like thousands of people coming together from the south of Laiwu Mountain in Mount Tai. When the people went to look, they saw a big stone standing up by itself. It was one foot to five feet high, as thick as forty-eight people surrounded it, and it was eight feet deep into the ground. There were three other stones as the feet of the big stone.
After the boulder stood on its own, thousands of white crows flew down and gathered around it.
At the same time, the dead trees in the Changyi Shrine and Temple came to life again, and the big willow tree that had been broken and withered and lying on the ground in Shanglin Garden actually stood up on its own and regained its vitality. There were many insects eating the leaves of the tree, and the leftover leaves were shaped like these words: Gongsun Bing has been established. Suihong then deduced the main idea of ​​"Spring and Autumn" and believed that: Stones and willows are both negative objects, symbolizing the common people at the bottom, while Mount Tai is the head of the mountains, and it is the place where emperors worshiped heaven to repay their merits after the change of dynasties.
Nowadays, big rocks stand on their own and dry willows come back to life. They are not made by human beings. Their creation shows that ordinary people will become emperors.
The resurrection of dead trees in the temple symbolizes the revival of the previously deposed Gongsun clan.
Suihong didn't know where the Gongsun family was, so he said: My ancestor Dong Zhongshu once said that even if there is a monarch who succeeds the emperor and abides by virtue, it will not prevent the saint from receiving orders from heaven.
The Han family is a descendant of Yao, and they are destined to pass on their surname to the country. Emperor Mo should tell the world about it.
He solicited talented people and abdicated the throne to him, while he abdicated and granted a land of hundreds of miles, just like the descendants of King Zhou of Yin, in order to obey the destiny.
Suihong asked his friend who was an internal official to write this book for him.
At that time, Emperor Zhao was still very young, and the general Huo Guang was in charge of the government. Huo Guang hated this very much, so he handed Suihong's memorial to Tingwei.
Huo Guang sent a memorial to Ci and Sui Hong, who deceived the public with their demonic words and committed treason. Both of them were sentenced to death.
Five years later, Emperor Xiaoxuan rose from the ranks of the people and ascended the throne, so he recruited Suihong's son as Lang.
Xiahou Shichang was from Lu.
Proficient in the Five Classics, he teaches Qi Shi and Shangshu.
After the deaths of Dong Zhongshu and Han Ying, Emperor Wu paid great attention to Xiahou Shichang.
Shichang knew the way of yin and yang. He once predicted the date when a fire would break out in Bailiang Terrace, and it turned out that a fire broke out on that day.
At that time, King Changyi was favored because he was the youngest. Emperor Wu chose a teacher for him, and Shichang became a tutor.
Shichang died of old age.
Xia Housheng, the son of his brother, was also famous as a Confucian scholar.
Xiahou Sheng's courtesy name is Chang Gong.
When the King of the Communist Party of Lu granted Ningxiang in western Lu to his son Jiehou, Ningxiang belonged to Dahe. Dahe was later renamed Shuping, so Xiahou Sheng was from Shuping.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
胜少孤，好学，从始昌受《尚书》及《洪范五行传》，说灾异。
后事蕳卿，又从欧阳氏问。
为学精孰，所问非一师也。
善说礼服。
征为博士、光禄大夫。
会昭帝崩，昌邑王嗣立，数出。
胜当乘舆前谏曰： 天久阴而不雨，臣下有谋上者，陛下出欲何之？
王怒，谓胜为袄言，缚以属吏。
吏白大将军霍光，光不举法。
是时，光与车骑将军张安世谋欲废昌邑王。
光让安世以为泄语，安世实不言。
乃召问胜，胜对言： 在《洪范传》曰 皇之不极，厥罚常阴，时则下人有伐上者 ，恶察察言，故云臣下有谋。
光、安世大惊，以此益重经术士。
后十余日，光卒与安世白太后，废昌邑王，尊立宣帝。
光以为群臣奏事东宫，太后省政，宜知经术，白令胜用《尚书》授太后。
迁长信少府，赐爵关内侯，以与谋废立，定策安宗庙，益千户。
宣帝初即位，欲褒先帝，诏丞相御史曰： 朕以眇身，蒙遗德，承圣业，奉宗庙，夙夜惟念。
孝武皇帝躬仁谊，厉威武，北征匈奴，单于远循，南平氐羌、昆明、瓯骆两越，东定薉、貉、朝鲜，廓地斥境，立郡县，百蛮率服，款塞自至，珍贡陈于宗庙；协音律，造乐歌，荐上帝，封太山，立明堂，改正朔，易服色；明开圣绪，尊贤显功，兴灭继绝，褒周之后；备天地之礼，广道术之路。
上天报况，符瑞并应，宝鼎出，白麟获，海效巨鱼，神人并见，山称万岁。
功德茂盛，不能尽宣，而庙乐未称，朕甚悼焉。
其与列侯、二千石、博士议。
translation: 
Xia Housheng lost his father when he was young, but he was very studious. He studied "Shang Shu" and "Hong Fan's Five Elements" with Shi Chang, and discussed disasters and strange phenomena.
Later, he studied under Jian Qing and then studied under Ouyang.
Xia Housheng was sophisticated and proficient in learning, and he studied under more than one person.
Xia Housheng is good at telling the ceremony of dress.
He was recruited as a doctor and Guanglu doctor.
At this time, Emperor Zhao died and King Changyi succeeded to the throne. King Changyi often traveled.
One time, Xia Housheng blocked the carriage of the King of Changyi and came forward to remonstrate: "It has been overcast for a long time without raining, which may lead to some ministers plotting against the emperor. Where else is your majesty going to go?"
The king of Changyi was furious and said that Xia Housheng was deceiving the public with his evil words, so he tied him up and handed him over to the officials.
The official reported the incident to the general Huo Guang, but Huo Guang did not punish Xiahou Sheng.
At this time, Huo Guang and the cavalry general Zhang Anshizheng were discussing how to depose the king of Changyi.
Huo Guang blamed Zhang Anshi for leaking the truth, but in fact An Shi did not leak it.
So Xia Housheng was interrogated, and Xia Housheng replied: "The Biography of Hong Fan" says that if an emperor does not rule according to the rules, he will be punished by the constant evil. At this time, there will be a crusade against him by the subordinates. It is just because the taboo is so obvious, so it is only said that there are ministers plotting against the emperor.
Huo Guang and An Shi were both shocked, and they valued Confucian scholars even more from then on.
More than ten days later, Huo Guang and An Shi finally petitioned the Queen Mother to depose King Changyi and establish Emperor Xuan.
Huo Guang believed that the ministers reported political affairs to the East Palace and the Queen Mother inspected government affairs, so they should understand the classics, so he asked Xia Housheng to teach the Queen Mother "Shangshu".
After Xiahou's victory, he was appointed as the Shaofu of Changxin and was given the title of Marquis of Guannei. He participated in the planning of the abolition of the establishment and the major decision-making of the ancestral temple and the country. Later, he was added to the food fiefdom of a thousand households.
As soon as Emperor Xuan came to the throne, he wanted to praise Emperor Wu's achievements. Prime Minister Xuan Shao said: In my humble status, I have received the kindness of my ancestors, inherited the saint's career, and worshiped the ancestral temple. I dare not forget it day and night.
Emperor Xiaowu himself was benevolent and righteous, and he was mighty and swift. He went north to conquer the Xiongnu, and the Chanyu fled far away. He went south to pacify Diqiang, Kunming, and Ouluo. He went east to pacify Ling, Raccoon, and Korea. He opened up our territory and established prefectures and counties. All barbarian countries also surrendered. Well-known envoys came uninvited. Precious tributes were displayed in the ancestral temple. Harmonious rhythms, Transform the songs of Yuefu, recommend them to heaven, seal Mount Tai, build Mingtang, change the month of Jianyin as the first year of the year, and change the colors of chariots and horses for sacrifice; create the achievements of saints, respect the virtuous and reward the meritorious, revive the decayed princes and noble families, praise the descendants of the Zhou Dynasty; sacrifice to heaven and earth with complete and grand gifts, and make the road of Taoism more bright and upright.
God also rewarded him. Various auspicious symbols and auspicious signs were fulfilled. A treasure tripod was unearthed from the ground, a white lin was obtained, a big fish was caught from the sea, gods and saints appeared, and even the mountains were saying long live.
His merits and virtues are so vast that they cannot be mentioned here. However, his temple music does not match his great achievements. I really feel sad for this.
So I brought this matter up to discuss with the princes, Erqianshi, and the wise men.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
于是群臣大议廷中，皆曰： 宣如诏书。
长信少府胜独曰： 武帝虽有攘四夷广土斥境之功，然多杀士众，竭民财力，奢泰亡度，天下虚耗，百姓流离，物故者半。
蝗虫大起，赤地数千里，或人民相食，畜积至今未复。
亡德泽于民，不宜为立庙乐。
公卿共难胜曰： 此诏书也。
胜曰： 诏书不可用也。
人臣之谊，宜直言正论，非苟阿意顺指。
议已出口，虽死不悔。
于是丞相义，御史大夫广明劾奏胜非议诏书，毁先帝，不道，及丞相长史黄霸阿纵胜，不举劾，俱下狱。
有司遂请尊孝武帝庙为世宗庙，奏《盛德》、《文始》、《五行》之舞，天下世世献纳，以明盛德。
武帝巡狩所幸郡国凡四十九，皆立庙，如高祖、太宗焉。
胜、霸既久系，霸欲从胜受经，胜辞以罪死。霸曰：  朝闻道，夕死可矣 。
胜贤其言，遂授之。
系再更冬，讲论不怠。
至四年夏，关东四十九郡同日地动，或山崩，坏城郭室屋，杀六千余人。
上乃素服，避正殿，遣使者吊问吏民，赐死者棺钱。
下诏曰： 盖灾异者，天地之戒也。
朕承洪业，托士民之上，未能和群生。
曩者地震北海、琅邪，坏祖宗庙，朕甚惧焉。其与列侯、中二千石博问术士，有以应变，补朕之阙，毋有所讳。
因大赦。胜出为谏大夫、给事中，霸为扬州剌吏。
胜为人质朴守正，简易亡威仪。
见时谓上为君，误相字于前，上亦以是亲信之。
translation: 
So the ministers had a heated discussion in the court, and they all said: It should be like the imperial edict.
Xia Housheng, the Shaofu of Ganmu Duchangxin, said: Although Emperor Wu did have the merit of defeating the barbarians and opening up the territory, he killed many ministers and people, exhausting the people's financial resources and squandering them. The world was very weak, the people were displaced, and more than half of them died.
Locust plagues spread across thousands of miles of bare land, and tragedies of cannibalism even occurred. The original reserve accumulation has not yet been restored.
Therefore, Emperor Wu was not benevolent to the people and could not establish another temple music for him.
The ministers all criticized Xia Housheng and said, "This is Shao Shu."
Xia Housheng said: This Shao calligraphy cannot be used.
As a minister, you should tell the truth and not bend your will to suit other people's wishes.
I've said what I want to say, and I won't regret it even if I die.
So Prime Minister Yi and Yushi Guangming impeached Xia Housheng for talking nonsense about Shaoshu, slandering the late emperor, and treason. Moreover, Prime Minister Huang Ba also refused to impeach Xia Housheng because he indulged Xia Housheng, and both of them were thrown into prison.
So the officials in charge asked the Temple of Emperor Wu to be revered as the Temple of Sejong, and perform music and dance performances of "Shengde", "Wenshi", and "Five Elements", and worship them for generations to come to highlight the virtues.
The forty-nine counties that Emperor Wu visited also had temples, just like Gaozu and Taizong.
Xia Housheng and Huang Ba have been imprisoned for a long time. Huang Ba wanted to learn Confucianism from Xia Housheng, but Xia Housheng rejected him on the grounds that he had been sentenced to death. Huang Ba said: If you hear the Tao in the morning, you will die in the evening.
Xia Housheng thought he spoke very well, so he taught him Confucian classics.
Another winter passed like this, but the lectures remained the same.
In the summer of the fourth year of Emperor Xuan's reign, there was an earthquake or landslide in the forty-nine counties of Guandong on the same day. City walls and houses collapsed, and more than 6,000 people died.
Emperor Xuan wore plain clothes and did not attend court in the main hall. He sent ministers to express condolences to officials and people, and gave the deceased money to pay for his coffin.
Emperor Xuan issued an edict saying: The occurrence of disasters is a warning from heaven and earth to us.
I inherited the achievements of my ancestors and placed myself above the people, but I did not let them live a good life.
In the past, there was an earthquake in Beihai and Langye, which damaged the ancestral temple. I was also very afraid. All the learned men among the princes and the middle two thousand stones, if you can find a way to deal with the disaster and make up for my shortcomings, don't be afraid.
So a general amnesty was granted to the whole country. Xia Housheng was pardoned and served as an admonition to the officials, and Huang Ba was appointed as the assassin of Yangzhou.
Xia Housheng was a simple and upright man, approachable but not dignified.
When meeting Emperor Xuan, he addressed Emperor Xuan as king, and addressed his colleagues by names in front of Emperor Xuan. These practices were not etiquette, but Emperor Xuan became closer and more trusting to him because of these practices.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
尝见，出道上语，上闻而让胜，胜曰： 陛下所言善，臣故扬之。
尧言布于天下，至今见诵。
臣以为可传，故传耳。
朝廷每有大议，上知胜素直，谓曰： 先生通正言，无惩前事。
胜复为长信少府，迁太子太傅。
受诏撰《尚书》、《论语说》，赐黄金百斤。
年九十卒官，赐冢茔，葬平陵。
太后赐钱二百万，为胜素服五日，以报师傅之恩，儒者以为荣。
始，胜每讲授，常谓诸生曰： 士病不明经术，经术苟明，其取青紫如俯拾地芥耳。
学经不明，不如归耕。
胜从父子建字长卿，自师事胜及欧阳高，左右采获，又从《五经》诸儒问与《尚书》相出入者，牵引以次章句，具文饰说。
胜非之曰： 建所谓章句小儒，破碎大道。
建亦非胜为学疏略，难以应敌。
建卒自颛门名经，为议郎、博士，至太子少傅。
胜子兼为左曹太中大夫，孙尧至长信少府、司农、鸿胪，曾孙蕃郡守、州牧、长乐少府。
胜同产弟子赏为梁内史，梁内史子定国为豫章太守。
而建子千秋亦为少府、太子少傅。
京房字君明，东郡顿丘人也。
治《易》，事梁人焦延寿。
延寿字赣。
赣贫贱，以好学得幸梁王。梁王共其资用，令极意学。
既成，为郡史，察举补小黄令。
以候司先知奸邪，盗贼不得发。
爱养吏民，化行县中。
举最当迁，三老官属上书愿留赣，有诏许增秩留，卒于小黄。
赣常曰： 得我道以亡身者，必京生也。
其说长于灾变，分六十四卦，更直日用事，以风雨寒温为候：各有占验。
translation: 
One time after Xiahou Sheng was received, he went out to tell others what Emperor Xuan had said. Emperor Xuan heard about it and blamed Xiahou Sheng. Xiahou Sheng replied: Your Majesty said it very well, so I will publicize it.
Yao's words spread throughout the world and are still recited today.
I thought these words could be spread, so they spread.
The last time the court had something important to discuss, because Emperor Xuan had always known that Xia Housheng was very forthright, Emperor Xuan would say to Xia Housheng: Sir, please speak frankly, don't be afraid because of past events.
Xia Housheng once again became the Shaofu of Changxin, and was promoted to Prince Taifu.
He was ordered by Emperor Xuan to write "Shangshu" and "The Analects of Confucius" and was given a hundred pounds of gold.
Xia Housheng died in office when he was ninety years old. He was given a cemetery and buried in Pingling.
The Queen Mother gave him two million and wore mourning clothes for Xiahou Sheng for five days to repay his master's kindness. Confucian scholars were proud of it.
In the past, Xia Housheng often told his students in lectures: Confucian scholars are most afraid of not understanding the classics. If they can master the classics, getting a high official will be as easy as picking up grass on the ground.
If you are not good at studying the classics, you might as well go home and farm.
Among the children of Xia Housheng's uncles, there was a man named Jian named Changqing. Since he became a teacher of Xia Housheng and Ouyang Gao, he often asked questions about doubts. He also asked Confucian scholars who studied the "Five Classics" and asked them about the differences from "Shang Shu".
Xia Housheng disagreed with this. He said: Xia Houjian is the kind of little Confucian who only seeks words and sentences, and has made Confucianism and Taoism into pieces.
Xiahou Jian was also dissatisfied with Xiahou Sheng. He thought that Xiahou Sheng was not knowledgeable and could not cope with the enemy.
Xiahou Jian finally established his own school in Confucian classics. He served as Dr. Yilang and became the prince's young master.
Xiahou Sheng's son Xiahou also served as Zuocao Taizhong's doctor, his grandson Xiahou Yao served as the official of Changxin Shaofu, Sinong, and Honglu, and his great grandson Xiahoufan served as county governor, prefectural pastor, and Changle Shaofu.
Xiahou Shang, the son of Xiahou Sheng's half-brother, became Liang Neishi, and Xiahou Shang's son Dingguo became the prefect of Yuzhang.
Xiahou Jian's son Qianqiu also served as the Shaofu and Prince Shaofu.
Jingfang, whose courtesy name is Junming, was born in Dunqiu, Shujun County.
He studied "The Book of Changes" and studied under Jiao Yanshou from Liang Dynasty.
The word for longevity is Gan.
Jiao Gan was born in a poor family, but because of his love of learning, he received courtesy from the King of Liang. The King of Liang provided him with the necessary expenses so that he could study with peace of mind.
After completing his studies, Jiao Gan served as county historian and was selected to replace Xiaohuang County Magistrate.
Because Jiao Gan could often know evil things in advance, the thieves did not dare to commit crimes.
Jiao Gan also cared deeply about lower-level officials and ordinary people, so the atmosphere in Xiaohuang County was very good.
As a result, his political performance scored very high in the examination, and according to regulations, he should be promoted to another official. However, the three elders of Xiaohuang County wrote a letter expressing their hope to keep Jiao Gan. As a result, the edict was issued to allow Xiaohuang County to keep Jiao Gan and increase his salary. Jiao Gan died in Xiaohuang County.
Jiao Gan often said: The person who can get my way but die because of it must be Jingfang.
Jiao Gan was the best at talking about disasters. He connected the sixty-four hexagrams with things to be done every day, and used meteorological changes such as wind, rain, cold and temperature as symptoms, each with its own calculation and fulfillment.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
房用之尤精。
好钟律，知音声。
初元四年以孝廉为郎。
永光、建昭间，西羌反，日蚀，又久青亡光，阴雾不精。
房数上疏，先言其将然，近数月，远一岁，所言屡中，天子说之。
数召见问，房对曰： 古帝王以功举贤，则万化成，瑞应著，末世以毁誉取人，故功业废而致灾异。
宜令百官各试其功，灾异可息。
诏使房作其事，房奏考功课吏法。
上令公卿朝臣与房会议温室，皆以房言烦碎，令上下相司，不可许。
上意乡之。
时，部刺史奏事京师，上召见诸刺史，令房晓以课事，刺史复以为不可行。
唯御史大夫郑私、光禄大夫周堪初言不可，后善之。
是时，中书令石显颛权，显友人五鹿充宗为尚书令，与房同经，论议相非。
二人用事，房尝宴见，问上曰： 幽、厉之君何以危？
所任者何人也？
上曰： 君不明，而所任者巧佞。
房曰： 知其巧佞而用之邪，将以为贤也？
上曰： 贤之。
房曰： 然则今何以知其不贤也？
上曰： 以其时乱而君危知之。
房曰： 若是，任贤必治，任不肖必乱，必然之道也。
幽、厉何不觉寤而更求贤，曷为卒任不肖以至于是？
上曰： 临乱之君各贤其臣，令皆觉寤，天下安得危亡之君？
房曰： 齐桓公、秦二世亦尝闻此君而非笑之，然则任竖习、赵高、政治日乱，盗贼满山，何不以幽、厉卜之而觉寤乎？
上曰： 唯有道者能以往知来耳。
translation: 
Jingfang is particularly good at this.
Jing Fang is good at the rhythm of bells and knows the rhythm of music.
In the fourth year of the Yuan Dynasty, he promoted Xiaolian as a Langguan.
During the Yongguang and Jianzhao years, the Xiqiang rebelled, and soon there was a solar eclipse. Then the sky was always dark with no sunlight, and the sky was full of fog with no bright color at all.
Jingfang wrote several times, predicting that something was going to happen, whether it was a few months or a year, and what he said came true many times.
Emperor Yuan was very happy about this, so he often called Jingfang to ask him. Jingfang replied: In ancient times, emperors selected talents based on merit, so all things were procreated and auspiciousness appeared. But in the declining world, talents were selected only based on praise, so merit was abandoned and disasters appeared.
At this time, it is best to let all officials review their own performance, so that the disaster will subside.
So Emperor Yuan went to Shao and asked Jingfang to do the work, and Jingfang reported specific methods for inspecting the performance of officials.
Emperor Yuan asked the ministers and ministers to go to the Greenhouse Hall with Jingfang to discuss the matter. They all thought that what Jingfang said was too trivial and it was not allowed for superiors and subordinates to supervise each other.
The emperor thought so in his heart.
At that time, the provincial governors came to the capital to report some matters. Emperor Yuan summoned all the governors and asked the governor to tell them that they wanted to inspect the officials' political performance. The governors also thought it was impossible to implement it.
Only the imperial censor Zheng Hong and Guanglu doctor Zhou Kan said no at first, but later thought it was good.
At this time, Zhongshu ordered Shi Xian to have exclusive power, and Shi Xian's friend Wulu Chongzong served as Shangshu Ling. He and Jingfang studied the same scripture, but their opinions were very different.
When the two were in power, Jingfang was summoned to Emperor Yuan for a banquet, and he asked Emperor Yuan: Why did monarchs like King You and King Li perish?
Who did they appoint?
The Five Emperors replied: King You and King Li ruled mediocrely, and they only used flattering words to flatter people.
Jingfang said: Did King You and King Li appoint these people after knowing that they were clever and sycophants, or did he appoint them because he thought they were virtuous people?
Emperor Yuan replied: He appointed them only because he thought they were capable.
Jingfang said: So how do you know today that they are not wise men?
Emperor Yuan said: It can be known because the society at that time was very chaotic and the monarch failed.
Jingfang said: If you appoint worthy people, the country will be well governed, and if you appoint unworthy people, the country will be in chaos. This is a certain truth.
Why didn't King You and King Li wake up and use virtuous people, but finally appointed unworthy people, and finally reached that point?
Emperor Yuan said: A king who is in troubled times regards his ministers as virtuous. If they all wake up, how can there be a king in the world who is in danger and his country is perishing?
Jingfang said: Qi Huangong and Qin II also heard about the two kings Youli and made fun of them, but they themselves still appointed people like Shudiao and Zhao Gao. The politics became more and more chaotic every day, and there were thieves on every mountain. Why didn't they take Youwang and Li as a warning and wake up?
Emperor Yuan said: Only the wise can avoid past mistakes and avoid future ones.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
房因免冠顿首，曰： 《春秋》纪二百四十二年灾异，以视万世之君。
今陛下即位已来，日月失明，星辰逆行，山崩泉涌，地震石陨，夏霜冬雷，春凋秋荣，陨霜不杀，水旱螟虫，民人饥疫，盗贼不禁，刑人满市，《春秋》所记灾异尽备。
陛下视今为治邪，乱邪？
上曰： 亦极乱耳。
尚何道！
房曰： 今所任用者谁与？
上曰： 然幸其愈于彼，又以为不在此人也。
房曰： 夫前世之君亦皆然矣。臣恐后之视今，犹今之视前也。
上良久乃曰： 今为乱者谁哉？
房曰： 明主宜自知之。
上曰： 不知也，如知，何故用之？
房曰： 上最所信任，与图事帷幄之中进退天下之士者是矣。
房指谓石显，上亦知之，谓房曰： 已谕。
房罢出，后上令房上弟子晓知考功课吏事者，欲试用之。
房上中郎任良、姚平， 愿以为刺史，试考功法，臣得通籍殿中，为奏事，以防雍塞。
石显、五鹿充宗皆疾房，欲远之，建言宜试以房为郡守。
元帝于是以房为魏郡太守，秩八百石居，得以考功法治郡。
房自请，愿无属刺史，得除用它郡人，自第吏千石已下，岁竟乘传奏事。
天子许焉。
房自知数以论议为大臣所非，内与石显、五鹿充宗有隙，不欲远离左右，及为太守，忧惧。
房以建昭二年二月朔拜，上封事曰： 辛酉已来，蒙气衰去，太阳精明，臣独欣然，以为陛下有所定也。
然少阴倍力而乘消息。
臣疑陛下虽行此道，犹不得如意，臣窃悼惧。
守阳平侯凤欲见未得，至己卯，臣拜为太守，此言上虽明下犹胜之效也。
臣出之后，恐必为用事所蔽，身死而功不成，故愿岁尽乘传奏事，蒙哀见许。
translation: 
Jingfang then took off his hat and kowtowed and said: "Spring and Autumn" recorded two hundred and forty-two years of disasters for future generations of monarchs to learn from.
Your Majesty has come to the throne. The sun and moon are no longer as bright as before, and the stars are moving in opposite directions. There are landslides, floods, earth shaking, meteorites falling from the sky, frost in summer, thunder in winter, everything withered in spring, but prosperous in autumn. , there is frost but no killing atmosphere, frequent floods and droughts, rampant borers, people starving, epidemics of plague, rampant thieves and repeated bans, and the streets are full of people being tortured. All the disasters recorded in the "Spring and Autumn" have been present.
May I ask, your majesty, whether there is order or chaos in the world today?
Emperor Yuan said: It's too chaotic.
Do you have anything to say?
Jingfang said: Who do you want to appoint now?
Emperor Yuan said: After all, the current disaster situation is much better than before. This should have nothing to do with the person appointed.
Jingfang said: The previous monarchs also thought so. I am afraid that future generations will look at us the same as we looked at the previous generation.
After a long time, Emperor Yuan said: "Who is causing trouble now?"
Jingfang said: A wise ruler should know it himself.
Emperor Yuan said: I don't know. If I know, why do I still use him?
Jingfang said: The person you trust most is the person who can plan great things with you behind the curtain and can appoint and remove the scholars in the world.
Jingfang refers to Shi Xian, and Emperor Yuan also knew it, so he said to Jingfang: I understand.
Jingfang had already come out, and later Emperor Yuan ordered Jingfang to recommend disciples who were familiar with examining the performance of officials in order to try them out.
Jingfang recommended Renliang and Yao Ping, the lieutenants of the imperial court, and said: I hope to appoint them as governors and try to implement the method of inspecting the performance of officials. I can enter the palace and report the situation to them to prevent the subordinates from being able to reach the top.
Shi Xian and Wulu Chongzong both hated Jingfang and wanted to keep him away from the emperor, so they suggested appointing Jingfang as the county governor.
Emperor Yuan then appointed Jingfang as the prefect of Wei County, with a salary of 800 shi, which enabled him to govern Wei County by examining the performance of officials.
Jingfang applied on his own, hoping that he would not be subject to the governor, be able to appoint people from other counties, be able to personally inspect the ranks of officials below Qianshi, and be able to sit on the carriage of Ekiden at the end of the year to report things.
Emperor Yuan agreed.
Jingfang himself knew that he had repeatedly discussed current affairs and was criticized by ministers. He also had quarrels with Shi Xian and Wulu Chongzong in the court. Therefore, he did not want to stay away from the emperor's side. When he became the prefect, he was very worried.
On the first day of February in the second year of Jianzhao's reign, Jingfang wrote a sealed memorial to Emperor Yuan, saying: Since that day of Xinyou, the mist has receded and left, and the sun has become brighter. I am secretly happy, thinking that your majesty has done something good.
However, the ministers' hexagrams are still stronger than those of the monarch.
I guess that although Your Majesty can do this, he seems to be unable to do so. Privately, I am very worried and apprehensive.
I originally wanted to ask Hou Feng of Yangping to convey his intention to visit, but I was unable to do so. On the day of Ji Mao, I was appointed as the prefect. This shows that although your Majesty is a wise man, your ministers are still more powerful than you.
After I left the court, I was worried that you must have been deceived by those in power, and that your achievements were not completed even after you died, so I hope that Sui will not be able to ride on the eunuch's carriage to tell the story immediately and get your love and permission.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
乃辛巳，蒙气复乘卦，太阳侵色，此上大夫覆阳而上意疑也。
已卯、庚辰之间，必有欲隔绝臣令不得乘传奏事者。
房未发，上令阳平侯凤承制诏房，止无乘传奏事。
房意愈恐，去至新丰，因邮上封事曰： 臣前以六月中言《遁卦》不效，法曰： 道人始去，寒，涌水为灾。
至其七月，涌水出。
臣弟子姚平谓臣曰： 房可谓知道，未可谓信道也。
房言灾异，未尝不中，今涌水已出，道人当遂死，尚复何言？
臣曰： 陛下至仁，于臣尤厚，虽言而死，臣犹言也。 平又曰： 房可谓小忠，未可谓大忠也。
昔秦时赵高用事，有正先者，非刺高而死，高威自此成，故秦之乱，正先趣之。 今臣得出守郡，自诡效功，恐未效而死。
惟陛下毋使臣塞涌水之异，当正先之死，为姚平所笑。
房至陕，复上封事曰： 乃丙戌小雨，丁亥蒙气去，然少阴并力而乘消息，戊子益甚，到五十分，蒙气复起。
此陛下欲正消息，杂卦之党并力而争，消息之气不胜。
强弱安危之机不可不察。
己丑夜，有还风，尽辛卯，太阳复侵色，至癸巳，日月相薄，此邪阴同力而太阳为之疑也。
臣前白九年不改，必有星亡之异。
臣愿出任良试考功，臣得居内，星亡之异可去。
议者知如此于身不利，臣不可蔽，故云使弟子不若试师。
臣为刺史又当奏事，故复云为刺史恐太守不与同心，不若以为太守，此其所以隔绝臣也。
陛下不违其言而遂听之，此乃蒙气所以不解，太阳亡色者也。
臣去朝稍远，太阳侵色益甚，唯陛下毋难还臣而易逆天意。
邪说虽安于人，天气必变，故人可欺，天不可欺也，愿陛下察焉。
translation: 
On the Xinsi day, the Meng Qi was heavy on the Sun Gua again, and the sun was invaded by color. This showed that the superior official was covering the sun and that your majesty was hesitant.
During the two days of Ji Mao and Geng Chen, there must have been people who blocked me from letting me report the matter to you in the post carriage.
Before Jingfang set out, Emperor Yuan ordered Hou Feng of Yangping to issue an edict to Jingfang and not allow him to enter the court to perform affairs.
Jingfang became even more frightened. When he arrived at Xinfeng, he mailed a sealed memorial to Emperor Yuan, saying: The "Avoidance Gua" I taught in mid-June did not come true. Fa said: When people with Taoism just leave, the weather will be cold and water will gush out and cause disaster.
By July, the water gushes out.
My disciple Yao Qian said to me: Jingfang can be said to know the Tao, but he cannot be said to believe in the Tao.
Jingfang was right about all the disasters he said. Now that water has come out, a wise man should avoid death. What more can he say?
I said: Your Majesty is very benevolent, and he is especially kind to me. Even if I say that I will die, I still want to say it. Yao Ping also said: Jingfang is a small loyalist, but he cannot be said to be a big loyalist.
In the past, when Zhao Gao was in power during the Qin Dynasty, a man named Zhengxian died because of his criticism of Zhao Gao. From then on, Zhao Gao's power was established. Therefore, the chaos in Qin was caused by Zhengxian. Now that I am serving as a county guard, I have to do my best to serve, but I am worried that I will die before I can serve.
I just ask Your Majesty not to let me take on the responsibility of Yongshui, die like Zhengxian, and be ridiculed by Yao Ping.
When Jingfang arrived in Shaanxi County, he wrote another sealed memorial saying: It rained lightly on Bingxu day, and the Yin energy left on Dinghai day, but the Shaoyin combined their strength to cover the sun. It was even worse on Wuzi day, and on the fiftieth day of the day, the Yin energy rose again.
At this time, Your Majesty wants to rectify the news, and the followers of the miscellaneous hexagrams work together to fight, but the Qi of news and breath cannot defeat them.
We cannot fail to observe carefully when the safety of the strong and weak is at stake.
On the night of Ji Chou, there was a storm. On the night of Xin Mao, the storm subsided and the sun was covered again. On the day of Guisi, the sun and moon were close to each other. This is because the evil and Yin combined their forces and the sun was confused.
I have said before that if there is no change in nine years, there will definitely be disasters like invisible stars.
I would like to recommend Ren Liang to try the method of inspecting the performance of officials. If I can live in your Majesty's place, then the disaster of not seeing stars can be eliminated.
Those people know that such words are not good for themselves, and I will not be deceived by them, so they say that it is better to use teachers than disciples.
And if I were to be the governor, I should report to His Majesty, so they said that if I were to be the governor, they were worried that I would not be of the same mind as the prefect, so it would be better to let me serve as the prefect. This is how they isolated me from Your Majesty.
Your Majesty did not disobey their words but allowed them to do so, which is why the Yin Qi never left and the sun lost its light.
The farther I am from the court, the more the sun will be blinded. I hope Your Majesty will not easily disobey God's will by making it difficult for me to come back.
Although heresy can be stable in the human world, the weather will definitely change, so people can be deceived, but heaven cannot be deceived. I hope your majesty will understand clearly.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
房去月余，竟征下狱。
初，淮阳宪王舅张博从房受学，以女妻房。
房与相亲，每朝见，辄为博道其语，以为上意欲用房议，而群臣恶其害己，故为众所排。
博曰： 淮阳王上亲弟，敏达好政，欲为国忠。
今欲令王上书求入朝，得佐助房。
房曰： 得无不可？
博曰： 前楚王朝荐士，何为不可？
房曰： 中书令石显、尚书令五鹿君相与合同，巧佞之人也，事县官十余年；及丞相韦侯，皆久亡补于民，可谓亡功矣。
此尤不欲行考功者也。
淮阳王即朝见，劝上行考功，事善；不然，但言丞相、中书令任事久而不治，可休丞相，以御史大夫郑弘代之，迁中书令置他官，以钩盾令徐立代之，如此，房考功事得施行矣。
博具从房记诸所说灾异事，因令房为淮阳王作求朝奏草，皆持柬与淮阳王。
石显微司具知之，以房亲近，未敢言。
及房出守郡，显告房与张博通谋，非谤政治，归恶天子，诖误诸侯王，语在《宪王传》。
初，房见道幽、厉事，出为御史大夫郑弘言之。
房、博皆弃市，弘坐免为庶人。
房本姓李，推律自定为京氏，死时年四十一。
翼奉字少君，东海下邳人也。
治《齐诗》，与萧望之、匡衡同师。
三人经术皆明，衡为后进，望之施之政事，而奉惇学不仕，好律历阴阳之占。
元帝初即位，诸儒荐之，征待诏宦者署，数言事宴见，天子敬焉。
时，平昌侯王临以宣帝外属侍中，称诏欲从奉学其术。
奉不肯与言，而上封事曰： 臣闻之于师，治道要务，在知下之邪正。
translation: 
More than a month after Jingfang left, he was finally thrown into prison.
At the beginning, Zhang Bo, the uncle of King Xian of Huaiyang, studied with Jingfang and married his daughter to Jingfang.
Jingfang was very close to Zhang Bo. After every court meeting, he always told Zhang Bo what the emperor said, thinking that the emperor originally wanted to adopt Jingfang's opinions, but the ministers were afraid that this would harm their own interests, so Jingfang was ostracized by everyone.
Zhang Bo said: King Huaiyang is the emperor's younger brother. He is agile and knowledgeable, likes to engage in politics, and wants to be loyal to the country.
Now I would like to ask the King of Huaiyang to write a letter requesting to join the court to assist you.
Jingfang said: I'm afraid not.
Zhang Bo said: In the past, the king of Chu had recommended scholars to the court, why couldn't the king of Huaiyang do the same?
Jingfang said: Zhongshu Ling Shi Xian and Shangshu Ling Wulu Chongzong colluded with each other. They are treacherous villains who have served the emperor for more than ten years. There is also Prime Minister Wei Hou. They have not done anything good for the people for a long time, so they have no merit.
These are the people who are particularly unwilling to implement the system of inspecting the performance of officials.
It would be best if the King of Huaiyang could come to court and advise the emperor to implement the system of inspecting officials. If that doesn't work, just say that the prime minister and Zhongshu Ling have been doing things for a long time but have not managed them well. You can remove the current prime minister and replace him with the imperial censor Zheng Hong. Let the current Zhongshu Ling be reassigned to another official position and replace him with Goudun Ling Xu Li. In this way, my suggestion of inspecting the officials can be implemented.
Zhang Bo completely listened to what Jingfang said about various disasters and strange events, so he asked Jingfang to write a memorial for the King of Huaiyang to meet the emperor, and wrote all these to the King of Huaiyang.
Shi Xian secretly investigated, and he knew all these things, but because Jingfang was close to the emperor, he did not dare to say anything.
When Jingfang became the county governor, Shi Xian falsely accused Jingfang of conspiring with Zhang Bo to slander the government, speak ill of the emperor, and implicate the princes and princes. This has been mentioned in the "Biography of King Xian".
At first, Jingfang was summoned to talk about the affairs of King You and King Li. After he came out, he told Zheng Hong, the imperial censor.
Jingfang and Zhang Bo were both executed in Zha City and their bodies were displayed on the street. Zheng Hong was also implicated and was dismissed from office and became a civilian.
Jingfang's original surname was Li, but he later changed his surname to Jing according to Lu's own calculation. He was only forty-one when he died.
Yi Feng, courtesy name Shaojun, was from Xiapi, Donghai.
He studied "Qi Shi" and studied under the same teacher as Xiao Wangzhi and Kuang Heng.
The three of them were all proficient in the classics. Kuang Heng was a junior and hoped to apply the classics to political affairs, while Yi Feng was diligent in studying and did not want to be an official, and liked the art of calendar yin and yang divination.
Not long after Emperor Yuan came to the throne, many Confucian scholars recommended him. He was conscripted into the office of eunuchs waiting for edicts. He wrote many times to express his opinions and was summoned to the emperor in his spare time. The emperor respected him very much.
At this time, Pingchang Hou Wanglin, because he was a relative of Emperor Xuan, served as his minister, and said that he would study Confucian classics with Yi Feng.
Yi Feng refused to talk to him, so he wrote a sealed memorial saying: I heard from my teacher that the most important thing in treating people is to know the good and evil of people.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
人诚乡正，虽愚为用；若乃怀邪，知益为害。
知下之术，在于六情十二律而已。
北方之情，好也；好行贪狼，申子主之。
东方之情，怒也；怒行阴贼，亥卯主之。
贪狼必待阴贼而后动，阴贼必待贪狼而后用，二阴并行，是以王者忌子卯也。
《礼经》避之，《春秋》讳焉。
南方之情，恶也；恶行廉贞，寅午主之。
西方之情，喜也；喜行宽大，已酉主之。
二阳并行，是以王者吉午酉也。《诗》曰： 吉日庚午。
上方之情，乐也；乐行奸邪，辰未主之。
下方之情，哀也；哀行公正，戌丑主之。
辰未属阴，戌丑属阳，万物各以其类应。
今陛下明圣虚静以待物至，万事虽众，何闻而不谕，岂况乎执十二律而御六情！
于以知下参实，亦甚优矣，万不失一，自然之道也。
乃正月癸未日加申，有暴风从西南来。
未主奸邪，申主贪狼，风以大阴下抵建前，是人主左右邪臣之气也。
平昌侯比三来见臣，皆以正辰加邪时。辰为客，时为主人。
以律知人情，王者之秘道也，愚臣诚不敢以语邪人。
上以奉为中郎，召问奉： 来者以善日邪时，孰与邪日善时？
奉对曰： 师法用辰不用日。
辰为客，时为主人。
见于明主，侍者为主人。
辰正时邪，见者正，侍者邪；辰邪时正，见者邪，侍者正。
忠正之见，侍者虽邪，辰时俱正；大邪之见，侍者虽正，辰时俱邪。
即以自知侍者之邪，而时邪辰正，见者反邪；即以自知侍者之正，而时正辰邪，见者反正。
辰为常事，时为一行。
辰疏而时精，其效同功，必参五观之，然后可知。
故曰：察其所繇，省其进退，参之六合五行，则可以见人性，知人情。
难用外察，从中甚明，故诗之为学，情性而已。
五性不相害，六情更兴废。
观性以历，观情以律，明主所宜独用，难与二人共也。
故曰： 显诸仁，臧诸用。 露之则不神，独行则自然矣，唯奉能用之，学者莫能行。
translation: 
If that person really pursues good character, then even that person's stupidity is useful; if he has evil intentions, then the more knowledge he has, the greater the harm will be.
There are six emotions and twelve laws to know people.
The love of the north is love; with love, one will be as greedy as a wolf. Shenzi presides over this side.
The emotion of the East is anger; when you are angry, you will use Yin Qi to harm other things, and Haimao rules this side.
The greedy wolf must wait for the Yin thief before acting, and the Yin thief must wait for the greedy wolf before acting. These two Yins run in parallel, so it is the taboo of Zimao for the king.
The Book of Rites avoids them, and the Spring and Autumn Annals also taboo them.
The love of the south is hatred; with hatred, there will be discipline and discipline, and Yinwu will be in charge of sending one side.
The feeling of the West is happiness; when you are happy, you will act leniently, and Siyou presides over this side.
The two yangs move together, so the one who is the king takes Wuyou as auspicious. "The Book of Songs" says: Geng Wu is auspicious.
The emotion above is happiness; with happiness there will be evil things, and Chen Wei presides over this side.
The feeling below is sorrow; sorrow will be just, and Xu Chou presides over this side.
Chen Wei belongs to Yin, Xu Chou belongs to Yang, and everything corresponds to it according to its own category.
Now His Majesty, His Majesty, is humble and quiet, waiting for things to come. Although there are many things in the world, there is nothing that cannot be understood, let alone using the twelve laws to control the six emotions!
If your Majesty can understand people and rule with reference to reality, it will be very good. If you can use natural methods to govern the world, everything will be perfect.
On the day of Guiwei in the first month, Shen was added, and there was a storm coming from the southwest.
Wei is in charge of treachery, while Shen is in charge of greedy wolves. The wind comes in front of Jian under the great shade, which means that the emperor has the aura of evil ministers around him.
The Marquis of Pingchang came to see me three times in a row, and all three times happened on the day of Zhengchen plus the evil hour. Chen is the guest, and Shi is the host.
Using laws to understand human feelings is the secret skill of kings. I really dare not tell evil people about it.
Emperor Yuan worshiped Yi Feng as his lieutenant. Once he summoned Yi Feng and asked him: Is it better for a person to come when he is good and says evil, or when evil is good?
Yi Feng replied: According to the teacher's method, use Chen instead of Sun.
Chen is the guest and Shi is the host.
The person who is received by the wise emperor in the inner court and serves the emperor is the master.
If the time is right and the time is evil, then the people who attend the court are upright and those who serve the emperor are evil; if the time is evil and the time is right, then the people who attend the court are evil and the people who serve the emperor are upright.
If a loyal and upright person goes to court, even if the people serving the emperor are evil, he will still be evil at all times. If a very evil person goes to court, even if the people serving the emperor are upright, he will still be evil at all times.
If you already know that the people who serve the emperor are evil, then the time is evil and the time is righteous, and the people you receive will be infected by evil spirits; if you already know that the people who serve the emperor are upright, then the time is righteous and the time is righteous, the people you receive will also be infected by the righteousness.
Chen is a permanent state, while Shi is a temporary state.
Chen is sparse and sometimes precise, but their effects are the same. They must be looked at in an intricate way before they can be known.
Therefore, it is said: By observing its origin, clarifying its process, and referring to the Liuhe and Five Elements, you can understand human nature and human feelings.
It is difficult to observe from the outside, but it is clear from the inside. Therefore, the knowledge of poetry only follows the emotions.
The five natures do not conflict with each other, and the six emotions alternate with each other.
Using the calendar to observe the five elements and the twelve laws to observe the six emotions are what a sage monarch should use alone, and it is difficult to use them with a second person.
Therefore, it is said: Show benevolence and righteousness and hide its use. It will not be effective if it is revealed. Use it alone and it will be natural. Only Feng can use it, and those who imitate me cannot practice it.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
是岁，关东大水，郡国十一饥，疫尤甚。
上乃下诏江海陂湖园池属少府者以假贫民，勿租税；损大官膳，减乐府员，损苑马，诸官馆稀御幸者勿缮治；太仆、少府减食谷马，水衡省食肉兽。
明年二月戊午，地震。
其夏，刘地人相食。
七月己酉，地复震。
上曰： 盖闻贤圣在位，阴阳和，风雨时，日月光，星辰静，黎庶康宁，考终厥命。
今朕共承天地，托于公侯之上，明不能烛，德不能绥，灾异并臻，连年不息。
乃二月戊午，地大震于陇西郡，毁落太上皇庙殿壁木饰，坏败豸原道县城郭官寺及民室屋，厌杀人众，山崩地裂，水泉涌出。
一年地再动，天惟降灾，震惊朕躬。
治有大亏，咎至于此。
夙夜兢兢，不通大变，深怀郁悼，未知其序。
比年不登，元元因乏，不胜饥寒，以陷刑辟，朕甚闵焉，憯怛于心。
已诏吏虚仓廪，开府臧，振救贫民，群司其茂思天地之戒，有可蠲除减省以便万姓者，各条奏。
悉意陈朕过失，靡有所讳。
因赦天下，举直言极谏之士。
奉奏封事曰：
臣闻之于师曰，天地设位，悬日月，布星辰，分阴阳，定四时，列五行，以视圣人，名之曰道。
圣人见道，然后知王治之象，故画州土，建君臣，立律历，陈成败，以视贤者，名之曰经。
贤者见经，然后知人道之务，则《诗》、《书》、《易》、《春秋》、《礼》、《乐》是也。
《易》有阴阳，《诗》有五际，《春秋》有灾异，皆列终始，推得失，考天心，以言王道之安危。
translation: 
This year, there was a great flood in Guanshu, famine occurred in one tenth of the county, and the plague was particularly prevalent.
Emperor Yuan then ordered the rivers, seas, lakes, gardens and ponds belonging to the Shaofu to be used to support the poor people without levying taxes; he reduced the royal meals provided by the Taiguan, reduced the number of members in the Yuefu, and reduced the number of horses in the gardens. The various palaces and palaces where the emperor rarely visited were no longer repaired; the Taifu Shaofu reduced the grains fed to the horses, and Shuiheng ate less meat.
An earthquake occurred on Wuwu day in February of the following year.
In the summer, a tragedy of cannibalism occurred in Qi.
On July 1st, another earthquake occurred.
Emperor Yuan said: I heard that when a sage king is in power, the yin and yang are harmonious, the weather is smooth, the sun and moon are bright, the stars are quiet, the people are healthy and peaceful, and the elderly can die in peace.
Now I enshrine the heaven and the earth, and I am above the princes, but the light cannot shine down, my virtue cannot bring peace to the people, and disasters and disasters come one after another, year after year.
On Wuwu Day in February this year, a major earthquake occurred in Longxi County. The wooden decorations on the walls of the Taishang Temple fell off, and government buildings and private houses in the city of Qidao County were destroyed. Many people were killed, mountains collapsed and the ground cracked, and water springs gushed out.
There are two earthquakes in one year. I am shocked by the disaster that God has sent me.
There are great flaws in governing the country, which has led to so many disasters.
I was trembling all night, not knowing what big change was going to happen. I was deeply depressed and sad, not knowing what to do.
There have been no good harvests for several years. The common people are hungry and poor. They cannot bear the hunger and cold, so much so that they break the law and are punished. I sympathize with them and feel sad and painful in my heart.
An edict has been issued asking officials to open warehouses and provide relief to the poor people. All officials should also think carefully about the warnings of heaven and earth. If there is anything that can avoid reducing savings and make it more convenient for the people, you can report it to me.
Point out my faults with all your heart, without any scruples.
So he gave a general amnesty to the world and selected those who spoke out and dared to remonstrate.
Yi Feng submitted a sealed memorial saying:
I heard from the teacher that the positioning of the heaven and the earth, the sun and the moon hanging above, the arrangement of the stars, the division of yin and yang, the determination of the four seasons, and the arrangement of the five elements are all for the saints to see. If given a name, it is called Tao.
The sage saw the Tao, and then knew the characteristics of the royal way, so he delimited the boundaries, established the system of monarchs and ministers, formulated the calendar, summarized the experience of success and failure, and showed it to the wise people, giving it a name called scripture.
Wise people read the scriptures and then know the important things of humanity, which are "Poetry", "Book", "Yi", "Spring and Autumn", "Ritual" and "Le".
"The Book of Changes" emphasizes yin and yang, "The Book of Songs" emphasizes the five realms, and "Spring and Autumn" emphasizes disasters and disasters. They all list the end and beginning, deduce gains and losses, and examine the will of heaven to explain the safety of the king's way.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
至秦乃不说，伤之以法，是以大道不通，至于灭亡。
今陛下明圣，深怀要道，烛临万方，布德流惠，靡有阙遗。
罢省不急之用，振救困贫，赋医药，赐棺钱，恩泽甚厚。
又举直言，求过失，盛德纯备，天下幸甚。
臣奉窃学《齐诗》，闻五际之要《十月之交》篇，知日蚀、地震之效昭然可明，犹巢居知风，穴处知雨，亦不足多，适所习耳。
臣闻人气内逆，则感动天地；天变见于星气日蚀，地变见于奇物震动。
所以然者，阳用其精，阴用其形，犹人之有五脏六体，五脏象天，六体象地。
故脏病则气色发于面，体病则欠申动于貌。
今年太阴建于甲戌，律以庚寅初用事，历以甲午从春。
历中甲庚，历得参阳，性中仁义，情得公正贞廉，百年之精岁也。
正以精岁，本首王位，日临中时接律而地大震，其后连月久阴，虽有大令，犹不能复，阴气盛矣。
古者朝廷必有同姓以明亲亲，必有异姓以明贤贤，此圣王之所以大通天下也。
同姓亲而易进，异姓疏而难通，故同姓一，异姓五，乃为平均。
今左右亡同姓，独以舅后之家为亲，异姓之臣又疏。
二后之党满朝，非特处位，势尤奢僣过度，吕、霍、上官足以卜之，甚非爱人之道，又非后嗣之长策也。
阴气之盛，不亦宜乎！
臣又闻未央、建章、甘泉宫才人各以百数，皆不得天性。
若杜陵园，其已御见者，臣子不敢有言，虽然，太皇太后之事也。
translation: 
By the time of the Qin Dynasty, they did not like the "Poetry", "Book" and other classics, and used laws to ban and destroy them. Therefore, the avenue could not be smooth and eventually perished.
Now His Majesty is wise and has a deep understanding of the essentials of governing the country. He has spread his virtues widely throughout the world and has not left out anything.
The abolition saves unnecessary expenses, provides relief to the needy and poor people, arranges doctors and good medicines for them, and gives them money to buy coffins. The kindness and benefit are already great.
He also recommends speaking out and asking others to point out his faults. If his virtues are pure and complete, the world will be very lucky.
Chen Feng himself studied "Qi Shi" and knew that the key point of the Five Worlds lies in the "Turn of October" chapter. He knew the effects of solar eclipses and earthquakes very clearly, just like living in a tree is sensitive to wind, and living in a cave is sensitive to rain. This is not worthy of praise, it is just a habit.
I heard that when a person's Qi goes retrograde in the body, there will be induced movement in the heaven and earth; changes in the sky are reflected in star gas and solar eclipses, and changes in the earth are reflected in strange objects and earthquakes.
The reason for this is that Yang uses its essence and Yin uses its shape, just like a person has five internal organs, the five internal organs are like the sky, and the six internal organs are like the earth.
Therefore, diseases of the five internal organs will appear on the face, and diseases of the six internal organs will appear in movements such as yawning and stretching.
This year, the Taiyin is built in Jiaxu. According to the law, it should be done at the beginning of Gengyin. According to the calendar, Jiawu is the beginning of spring.
According to the law, the Jiageng year in the calendar is the Three Yangs, with a benevolent and righteous character, fair and honest feelings, and is the best year in a hundred years.
Because it was a good year, he was originally the first king, but the sun hit the law when it was close to the middle and a big earthquake occurred. After that, it remained cloudy for several months. Although the emperor took many remedial measures, it still could not recover because the yin energy was too strong.
In ancient times, there must be ministers with the same surname as the emperor to show their closeness, and there must be ministers with different surnames from the emperor to show respect for the virtuous. This is the reason why the wise emperor can rule the world.
People with the same surname are easy to advance in officialdom because they are close to the emperor, while people with different surnames are alienated from the emperor and difficult to advance in officialdom. Therefore, if there is one person with the same surname and five people with different surnames, this is an average.
Nowadays, the emperor has no one with the same surname around him. He only regards the queen mother and the queen's family as confidants, and ministers with different surnames are alienated.
The empress dowager and empress's two families are filled with members of the imperial court. Not only are they in high positions, but their power is extravagant. The experiences of Lu, Huo, and Shangguan can predict their fate. This is far from a way to protect them, nor is it a long-term strategy for future generations.
Yin Qi is so prevalent, isn’t it as it should be?
I also heard that there are hundreds of talented people in Weiyang, Jianzhang, and Ganquan palaces, but none of them can have sex with the emperor.
Like Du Lingyuan, the ministers did not dare to say anything to someone who had already been seen by the emperor. Even so, it was the Empress Dowager's business.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
及诸侯王园，与其后宫，宜为设员，出其过制者，此损阴气应天救邪之道也。
今异至不应，灾将随之。
其法大水，极阴生阳，反为大旱，甚则有火灾，春秋宋伯姬是矣。
唯陛下财察。
明年夏四月乙未，孝武园白鹤馆灾。奉自以为中，上疏曰： 臣前上五际地震之效，曰极阴生阳，恐有火灾。
不合明听，未见省答，臣窃内不自信。
今白鹤馆以四月乙未，时加于卯，月宿亢灾，与前地震同法。
臣奉乃深知道之可信也。
不胜拳拳，愿复赐间，卒其终始。
上复延问以得失。
奉以为祭天地于云阳汾阴，及诸寝庙不以亲疏迭毁，皆烦费，违古制。
又宫室苑囿，奢泰难供，以故民困国虚，亡累年之畜。
所繇来久，不改其本，难以末正，乃上疏曰：
臣闻昔者盘庚改邑以兴殷道，圣人美之。
窃闻汉德隆盛，在于孝文皇帝躬行节俭，外省徭役。
其时未有甘泉、建章及上林中诸离宫馆也。
未央宫又无高门、武台、麒麟、凤皇、白虎、玉堂、金华之殿，独有前殿、曲台、渐台、宣室、温室、承明耳。
孝文欲作一台，度用百金，重民之财，废而不为，其积土基，至今犹存，又下遗诏，不起山坟。
故其时天下大和，百姓洽足，德流后嗣。
如令处于当今，因此制度，必不能成功名。
天道有常，王道亡常，亡常者所以应有常也。
必有非常之主，然后能立非常之功。
translation: 
As for the gardens of princes and kings and their harems, it is best to set quotas and send out those who exceed the system. This is a way to eliminate yin energy and respond to heaven's control of evil.
Nowadays, weird things happen and if they are not corrected, disaster will ensue.
According to the method of fortune-telling, when there is a flood, when the yin reaches the extreme, yang will occur, but there will be severe drought or even fire. This was the case with Boji of the Song Dynasty in the Spring and Autumn Period.
May your Majesty decide.
On April Yiwei of the following summer, a fire broke out in the Baihe Pavilion of Xiaowu Garden. Yi Feng thought he was right, so he wrote to Shu: I once wrote about earthquakes in the fifth chapter of "The Book of Songs" and "The Turn of October". When yin reaches its extreme, yang will appear, so there may be a fire.
This is not consistent with perfect virtue, and there is no answer, and I dare not take it for granted.
Nowadays, a fire breaks out in Baihe Pavilion on Yiwei in April, when the hour is at Mao and the moon is at high, which is the same as the previous earthquakes.
Only then did I realize that I should be believed.
I can't help being sincere and sincere, and I hope your majesty can grant me some time to study its ins and outs.
Emperor Yuan asked Yi Feng for advice on gains and losses.
Yi Feng believed that it would cost a lot to worship heaven and earth in Fenyin, Yunyang, and not destroy parts of each temple because of closeness, which was against the ancient system.
Moreover, the palaces and gardens were limited and it was difficult to provide luxury and luxury, which made the people poor and the treasury was empty, and they lost so many years of savings.
These have been around for a long time, and if the fundamentals are not changed, it will be difficult to make them normal, so Shang Shu said:
I heard that in the past Pan Geng moved the capital to revive the Yin Dynasty, and the saints praised him.
I also heard that the virtues of the Han Dynasty were flourishing because Emperor Xiaowen took the lead in frugality and reduced the corvee.
At that time, there were no Ganquan, Jianzhang and various villas in Shanglin where the emperor could visit at any time.
There are no palaces such as Gaomen, Wutai, Qilin, Fenghuang, Baihu, Yutang, and Jinhua in Weiyang Palace. It only has the front hall, Qutai, Jiantai, Xuanshi, Greenhouse, and Chengming.
Xiaowen wanted to build a platform, which was estimated to cost one hundred kilograms of gold, so he put the people first and stopped building it. The foundation made of earth is still there to this day. He also left an edict not to build tall tombs.
Therefore, at that time, the world was stable, the people were harmonious and prosperous, and virtues were passed down to future generations.
If he were allowed to follow this system today, he would definitely not be able to achieve fame.
The law of heaven is always there, but the king's law is impermanent. The king's law of impermanence is used to respond to the law of heaven, which is always there.
There must be an unusual monarch before he can achieve extraordinary achievements.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
臣愿陛下徙都于成周，左据成皋，右阻黾池，前乡崧高，后介大河，建荥阳，扶河东，南北千里以为关，而入敖仓；地方百里者八九，足以自娱；东厌诸侯之权，西远羌胡之难，陛下共已亡为，按成周之居，兼盘庚之德，万岁之后，长为高宗。
汉家郊兆寝庙祭祀之礼多不应古，臣奉诚难亶居而改作，故愿陛下迁都正本。
众制皆定，亡复缮治宫馆不急之费，岁可余一年之畜。
臣闻三代之祖积德以王，然皆不过数百年而绝。
周至成王，有上贤之材，因文、武之业，以周、召为辅，有司各敬其事，在位莫非其人。
天下甫二世耳，然周公犹作诗、书深戒成王，以恐失天下。
《书》则曰： 王毋若殷王纣。
其《诗》则曰： 殷之未丧师，克配上帝；宜监于殿，骏命不易。
今汉初取天下，起于丰沛，以兵征伐，德化未洽，后世奢侈，国家之费当数代之用，非直费财，又乃费士。
孝武之世，暴骨四夷，不可胜数。
有天下虽未久，至于陛下八世九主矣，虽有成王之明，然亡周、召之佐。
今东方连年饥馑，加之以疾疫，百姓菜色，或至相食。
地比震动，天气混浊，日光侵夺。
繇此言之，执国政者岂可以不怀怵惕而戒万分之一乎！
故臣愿陛下因天变而徙都，所谓与天下更始者也。
天道终而复始，穷则反本，故能延长而亡穷也。
今汉道未终，陛下本而始之，于以永世延祚，不亦优乎！
如因丙子之孟夏，顺太阴以东行，到后七年之明岁，必有五年之余蓄，然后大行考室之礼，虽周之隆盛，亡以加此。
唯陛下留神，详察万世之策。
书奏，天子异其意，答曰： 问奉：今园庙有七，云东徙，状何如？
奉对曰 昔成王徙洛，般庚迁殷，其所避就，皆陛下所明知也。
非有圣明，不能一变天下之道。
臣奉愚戆狂惑，唯陛下裁赦。
translation: 
I hope that your majesty will move the capital to Chengzhou, with Chenggao on the left, Zhichi as a barrier on the right, Mount Song in front, and the Yellow River in the back. Build Rongyang, east of the Sashu River, and the land of thousands of miles from south to north can be used as a pass to enter Aocang; with a radius of 100 There are eight or nine places in it, which are enough for your own entertainment; to the east, you can suppress the power of the princes, and to the west, you can stay away from the Qiang and Hu's attacks. Your Majesty, being solemn and inactive, settles in Chengzhou, and has Pan Geng's virtues. Ten thousand years later, he can become Emperor Gaozong for a long time.
The boundaries of the Han family's suburban sacrificial altars and the etiquette of temple sacrificial offerings are many inconsistent with the ancient system. I think it will be very difficult to carry out reforms just by living in Chang'an, so I hope that your Majesty will move the capital to rectify the fundamentals.
Various systems have been formulated, and there are no longer unnecessary expenses such as repairing palaces. By the end of the year, there will be an extra year of savings.
I heard that the ancestors of three generations accumulated virtue and became kings of the world, but it only took a few hundred years for them to end.
When Zhou became king, he had the most outstanding talents. Relying on the merits of King Wen and King Wu, with the Duke of Zhou and Duke Zhao as assistants, the officials each did their job well, and all the officials were suitable candidates for their positions.
The world has just been passed down for two generations, but Zhou Gong still wrote poems and books to deeply warn the king, fearing that he would lose the world.
"Book of Zhou" says: Your Majesty, don't be like King Zhou of Yin.
"Poetry" says: Before Yin loses the world, he can act in harmony with heaven; he should take Yin as a warning and know that the emperor's career is hard-won.
Now when the Han Dynasty first conquered the world, it started from abundance and conquered by force. Morality and education were not harmonious. Later generations were extravagant and squandered. The country's expenses were equivalent to several generations. It not only consumed financial resources, but also consumed talents.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaowu, countless people’s corpses were exposed in Seyi.
Although he has not owned the world for a long time, your majesty has already had eight generations and nine emperors. Although he has a sage like King Cheng, he does not have the assistance of people like Duke Zhou and Duke Zhao.
Nowadays, there has been famine in the east for many years, coupled with diseases and plagues, the people are starving and even cannibalism.
The earth shook continuously, the weather was turbid, and the sun was unclear.
From this point of view, how can the people in power in the country not be wary of the one ten thousandth person with fear?
Therefore, I hope that Your Majesty will move the capital because of the changes in the sky, so that the so-called peace with the world will start again.
The way of heaven begins again when it reaches its end, and returns to its origin when it reaches its end, so it can be extended without being exhausted.
Now that Han's fate has not ended yet, wouldn't it be great if Your Majesty could stick to the basics and let it start again so that it can be passed down from generation to generation?
If you can ride on Bingzi's Menxia and go eastward along the lunar calendar, in the second year of the next seven years, you will definitely have five years of savings, and then hold the ceremony of examination in a grand manner. Even if the Zhou Dynasty is so prosperous, it will not exceed this.
May your Majesty pay attention and carefully consider the long-lasting strategy.
After the memorial was submitted, the emperor felt that Yi Feng's opinion was different, so he responded: Question to Feng: There are seven ancestral temples where the emperor's tomb is now located. They say they want to move eastward. What should we do?
Yi Feng replied: "In the past, King Cheng moved to Luo and Pan Geng moved to Yin. Your Majesty knows the whole story clearly."
Without the virtue of saintliness, one cannot change the world.
I am upright, ignorant, arrogant and confused. Please forgive me at your Majesty's discretion.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
其后，贡禹亦言当定迭毁礼，上遂从之。
及匡衡为丞相，奏徙南北郊，其议皆自奉发之。
奉以中郎为博士、谏大夫，年老以寿终。
子及孙，皆以学在儒官。
李寻字子长，平陵人也。
治《尚书》，与张孺、郑宽中同师。
宽中等守师法教授，寻独好《洪范》灾异，又学天文月令阴阳。
事丞相翟方进，方进亦善为星历，除寻为吏，数为翟侯言事。
帝舅曲阳侯王根为大司马票骑将军，厚遇寻。
是时多灾异，根辅政，数虚己问寻。
寻见汉家有中衰厄会之象，其意以为且有洪水为灾，乃说根曰：
《书》云 天聪明 ，盖言紫宫极枢，通位帝纪，太微四门，广开大道，五经六纬，尊术显士，翼张舒布，烛临四海，少微处士，为比为辅，故次帝廷，女宫在后。
圣人承天，贤贤易色，取法于此。
天官上相上将，皆颛面正朝，忧责甚重，要在得人。
得人之效，成败之机，不可不勉也。
昔秦穆公说諓々之言，任仡仡之勇，身受大辱，社稷几亡。
悔过自责，思惟黄发，任用百里奚，卒伯西域，德列王道。
二者祸福如此，可不慎哉！
夫士者，国家之大宝，功名之本也。
将军一门九候，二十朱轮，汉兴以来，臣子贵盛，未尝至此。
夫物盛必衰，自然之理，唯有贤友强辅，庶几可以保身命，全子孙，安国家。
《书》曰： 历象日月星辰 ，此言仰视天文，俯察地理，观日月消息，侯星辰行伍，揆山川变动，参人民谣俗，以制法度，考祸福。
translation: 
Later, Gong Yu also said that the ancestral temple system should be established, and Emperor Yuan listened to his opinion.
When he became prime minister in Kuangheng, Shangzou moved to the northern and southern suburbs, and their discussions all started from Yifeng.
Yi Feng became a doctor and an admonishing doctor from Zhonglang, and died in old age.
His son and grandson both became academic officials based on their knowledge.
Li Xun, courtesy name Zichang, was born in Pingling.
Studying "Shangshu", he had the same teacher as Zhang Ru and Zheng Kuanzhong.
Kuan Zhong and others taught their disciples according to the teacher's teachings, but Li Xun liked the theory of disasters and strange phenomena in "Hong Fan" and also studied astronomy, moon orders and yin and yang.
He served Prime Minister Zhai Fangjin, who was also good at studying ephemeris, and appointed Li Xun as an official. Li Xun discussed political affairs with Zhai Hou several times.
The emperor's uncle, Quyanghou Wanggen, served as Ding Da Sima Hussar General and was very kind to Li Xun.
At this time, there were many disasters. Wang Gen assisted the government and humbly asked Li Xun several times for advice.
Li Xun saw that the Mo family was in a state of decline and adversity, and thought that there would be a flood, so he persuaded Wang Gendao:
"The Book" says that the sky is smart, which means that the North Star in the Purple Palace is turning around, and it is connected with the Emperor of Heaven. Taiwei has four gates, wide open roads, five meridians and six latitudes. It respects the classics and makes people noble, spreads its wings, and shines all over the world. Shaowei is in charge of scholars who are not in office or not, and is Taiwei's assistant. Therefore, in the order of the emperor's palace, the palace of women comes last.
The sage upholds the will of God and respects the virtuous and despises the virtuous. This is the method he adopts.
The prime ministers and generals in the Celestial Palace are all dedicated to handling the affairs of the Celestial Dynasty correctly. They have great worries and responsibilities. The key is to get the right talents.
How effective you are in winning people is the key to success or failure, so you must encourage it.
In the past, Duke Mu of Qin liked to listen to eloquent people and appoint brave men. However, he suffered great humiliation and the country was almost destroyed.
Repenting and blaming himself, thinking that only the old man was the only one, he appointed Baili Xi, and finally he became the uncle in the west, and his virtues were also listed in the king's way.
There is such a big difference between the blessings and misfortunes between the two. Can we not be cautious?
Talent is the treasure of the country and the basis for achieving fame.
General, nine of your family have been granted the title of marquis, and twenty have become high-ranking officials. Since the Han Dynasty, ministers have been so noble and prosperous, and this has not been the case.
It is a natural principle that things that prosper must decline. Only with the help of wise men and the strong men can we preserve the life of the land, protect our descendants, and make the country peaceful.
"Shangshu" says that "lixiangs refer to the sun, moon and stars", which means that you can look up at the sky, observe the geography, observe the movement of the sun and the moon, see the arrangement of the stars, measure the changes in the mountains, examine folk songs and folk customs, and use them to formulate laws and examine misfortunes and fortunes.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
举措悖逆，咎败将至，征兆为之先见。明君恐惧修正，侧身博问，转祸为福；不可救者，即蓄备以待之，故社稷亡忧。
窃见往者赤黄四塞，地气大发，动土竭民，天下扰乱之征也。
彗星争明，庶雄为桀，大寇之引也。
此二者已颇效矣。
城中讹言大水，奔走上城，朝廷惊骇，女孽入宫，此独未效。
间者重以水泉涌溢，旁宫阙仍出。
月、太白入东井，犯积水，缺天渊。
日数湛于极阳之色。羽气乘宫，起风积云。
又错以山崩地动，河不用其道。
盛冬雷电，潜龙为孽。
继以陨星流彗，维、填上见，日蚀有背乡。
此亦高下易居，洪水之征也。
不忧不改，洪水乃欲荡涤，流彗乃欲扫除；改之，则有年亡期。
故属者颇有变改，小贬邪猾，日月光精，时雨气应，此皇天右汉亡已也，何况致大改之！
宜急博求幽隐，拔擢天士，任以大职。诸阘茸佞谄，抱虚求进，乃用残贼酷虐闻者，若此之徒，皆嫉善憎忠，坏天文，败地理，涌跃邪阴，湛溺太阳，为主结怨于民，宜以时废退，不当得居位。
诚必行之，凶灾销灭，子孙之福不旋日而至。
政治感阴阳，犹铁炭之低卬，见效可信者也。
及诸蓄水连泉，务通利之。
修旧堤防，省池泽税，以助损邪阴之盛。
案行事，考变易，讹言之效，未尝不至。
请征韩放，掾周敞、王望可与图之。
相于是荐寻。
哀帝初即位，召寻待诏黄门，使侍中卫尉傅喜问寻曰： 间者水出地动，日月失度，星辰乱行，灾异仍重，极言毋有所讳。
寻对曰：
translation: 
If the implementation of policies violates these, disaster will come, and corresponding signs will appear in advance. When a wise monarch sees the signs, he will be afraid and correct his mistakes, listen attentively, ask extensively, and turn misfortune into blessing; if he cannot save, he will accumulate reserves to wait, so the country will have no worries.
I saw that there used to be red and yellow qi everywhere, and the earth's qi exploded violently, shaking the land and exhausting the people's strength. This was a sign of great chaos in the world.
The comets compete with the sun and the moon, and civilians become heroes. This is the beginning of great chaos.
These two points have been very effective.
There were rumors in the city that there was going to be a flood. People ran to the city walls. The court was frightened and female evildoers entered the palace. This has not yet come true.
During this period, groundwater gushed out in large quantities, and water frequently came out of nearby palaces.
The moon and Taibai entered the east well, offended the accumulated water, and wiped the abyss of the sky.
The sun sank into the extreme color many times, the feathers rose to the top of the palace, and the wind became strong and the clouds thickened.
There were also landslides and earthquakes, and the Yellow River also changed its course.
There is thunder and lightning in the middle of winter, and dragons lurk causing mischief.
Then meteorites and comets appeared again, and monster stars like Wei and Zhen also appeared in the sky. Solar eclipses come in different directions.
This is also a sign that high and low will exchange status and a flood will occur.
If we don't worry about changes, then floods will destroy everything and comets will cause harm. If there are changes, disasters can be averted.
Therefore, there have been quite a few changes recently, belittling evil and cunning people, the sun and the moon shining brightly, and the weather coming to help when it rains. This is God's blessing that indifference will never be destroyed, let alone carrying out major reforms!
We should urgently recruit secluded people widely, and select and promote people who understand the way of heaven, so that they can hold important positions. People like these are jealous of good deeds and hate loyalty, corrupting the sky, destroying geography, rushing into the evil yin, drowning the sun, and causing resentment between the monarch and the people. They should be dismissed at this time and cannot occupy official positions.
If you can really do this, the disaster will disappear, and the blessings of your descendants will come soon.
The relationship between political affairs and yin and yang is like iron and charcoal, one low and one high, and the effect can be believed.
Those reservoirs and connected water sources must be dredged and diverted.
Repair the old embankment and exempt Chize from taxes, thereby consuming the prevalence of evil yin.
Examine what you are doing and look for changes. Rumors will not come true unless you predict them.
Please recruit Han Fang and Zhou Chang and Wang Wang, so that you can plan things with them.
Wang Gen then recommended Li Xun.
Not long after Emperor Ai came to the throne, he summoned Li Xun to Huangmen to await the edict, and sent Fu Xi, the imperial guard, to ask Li Xun: "Some time ago, there were earthquakes and floods, the sun and the moon did not move according to their normal movements, the stars were disordered, and disasters occurred frequently. I hope you can speak freely without any scruples."
Li Xun replied:


Chunk 15: 
original: 
陛下圣德，尊天敬地，畏命重民，悼惧变异，不忘疏贱之臣，幸使重臣临问，愚臣不足以奉明诏。
窃见陛下新即位，开大明，除忌讳，博延名士，靡不并进。
臣寻位卑术浅，过随众贤待诏，食太官，衣御府，久污玉堂之署。
比得召见，亡以自效。
复特见延问至诚，自以逢不世出之命，愿竭愚心，不敢有所避，庶几万分有一可采。
唯弃须臾之间，宿留瞽言，考之文理，稽之《五经》，揆之圣意，以参天心。
夫变异之来，各应象而至，臣谨条陈所闻。《易》曰： 县象著明，莫大乎日月。
夫日者，众阳之长，辉光所烛，万里同晷，人君之表也。
故日将旦，清风发，群阴伏，君以临朝，不牵于色。
日初出，炎以阳，君登朝，佞不行，忠直进，不蔽障。
日中辉光，君德盛明，大臣奉公。
日将入，专以一，君就房，有常节。
君不修道，则日失其度，暗昧亡光。
各有云为：其于东方作，日初出时，阴云邪气起者，法为牵于女谒，有所畏难；日出后，为近臣乱政；日中，为大臣欺诬；日且入，为妻妾役使所营。
间者日尤不精，光明侵夺失色，邪气珥蜺数作。本起于晨，相连至昏，其日出后至日中间差愈。
小臣不知内事，窃以日视陛下志操，衰于始初多矣。
其咎恐有以守正直言而得罪者，伤嗣害世，不可不慎也。
唯陛下执乾刚之德，强志守度，毋听女谒邪臣之态。
诸保阿乳母甘言悲辞之托，断而勿听。
勉强大谊，绝小不忍；良有不得已，可赐以货财，不可私以官位，诚皇天之禁也。
日失其光，则星辰放宽。
translation: 
Your Majesty, who is holy and virtuous, respects heaven and earth, is fearful of life and the people, is wary of disasters and abnormal events, and does not forget his ministers who are far away and of humble status.
When I saw Your Majesty ascending the throne, I opened my mouth to speak widely, avoided taboos, sought out famous people, and made progress in all matters.
I am in a humble position and have little Taoism, but I am embarrassed to be able to stay in the imperial palace with many wise men, eat the food cooked by the eunuch, wear the clothes made by the imperial palace, and stay in the Yutang official office for a long time.
When he was summoned, he had nothing to do.
He specially summoned me and asked for advice sincerely. I thought that I had encountered the order of an immortal monarch, and I hope that I can do my best and not dare to evade. Maybe one ten thousandth of it can be adopted.
I hope you can give me some time to listen to my uninformed nonsense, refer to celestial phenomena and geography, check with the Five Classics, and measure the holy will to know the will of God.
Disasters and accidents occur because they fulfill their respective signs. I respectfully present what I know. "Book of Changes" says: There is no greater hanging image than the sun and the moon.
The sun is the first of all the suns. The sun shines brightly on thousands of miles. It is the symbol of the king.
Therefore, when the sun is about to rise, the breeze blows, the shadows hide, and the king comes to court without being distracted by beauty.
When the sun rises, it is as hot as fire. When the king ascends the throne, crafty men and women cannot travel, but loyal and upright people march forward without being blinded by obstacles.
It is said that when the sun reaches the middle of the sky, the sky will be brilliant, the ruler will be virtuous, and the ministers will obey the law.
He said that he was about to go down the mountain. He was simple and dedicated. When you enter the pepper room, you should not break the common etiquette.
If a person does not practice the Great Way, then he will lose his Dharma and become dim and without light.
Each has its own sensory performance. When the sun rises from the east, dark clouds and evil spirits also arise. According to the common law of divination, it is known that this is a sign that the king is afraid of trouble due to the entrustment of his wife and concubines. After sunrise, if the above-mentioned vision occurs, it is known that his ministers are disturbing the government.
The sun has been particularly dull recently. Its light has been robbed and lost its brightness. The evil spirit Erni has appeared several times. It starts in the morning and lasts until dusk. There is a big difference between the sunrise and the day.
I don't know what's going on in the imperial court, but privately I use the sun to look at His Majesty's ambition and integrity, and there are many signs of weakness at sunrise.
There will be mistakes in the education, and I am afraid that because I uphold the right path and dare to speak out and remonstrate something that will offend the emperor and harm his heirs and grandchildren, you must not be careless.
I hope that your majesty can uphold the virtue of being strong, abide by the laws with a strong will, and not listen to the requests of women or the words of treacherous ministers.
Cut off and do not listen to the good words and sad words of the guards and wet nurses.
Try your best to do what you should do most, and don't do things that are benevolent or righteous. If you have no choice, you can give them some money and goods, but you can't give them official positions in private. These are really God's prohibitions.
The sun has lost its light, and the stars are left to their own devices.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
阳不能制阴，阴桀得作。
间者太白正昼经天。
宜隆德克躬，以执不轨。
臣闻月者，众阴之长，销息见伏，百里为品，千里立表，万里连纪，妃后大臣诸侯之象也。
朔晦正终始，弦为绳墨，望成君德，春夏南，秋冬北。
间者，月数以春夏与日同道，过轩辕上后受气，入太微帝廷扬光辉，犯上将近臣，列星皆失色，厌厌如灭，此为母后与政乱朝，阴阳俱伤，两不相便。
外臣不知朝事，窃信天文即如此，近臣已不足仗矣。
屋大柱小，可为寒心。
唯陛下亲求贤士，无强所恶，以崇社稷，尊强本朝。
臣闻五星者，五行之精，五帝司命，应王者号令为之节度。
岁星主岁事，为统首，号令所纪，今失度而盛，此君指意欲有所为，未得其节也。
又填星不避岁星者，后帝共政，相留于奎、娄，当以义断之。
荧惑往来亡常，周历两宫，作态低卬，入天门，上明堂，贯尾乱宫。
太白发越犯库，兵寇之应也。
贯黄龙，入帝庭，当门而出，随荧惑入天门，至房而分，欲与荧惑为患，不敢当明堂之精。
此陛下神灵，故祸乱不成也。
荧惑厥弛，佞巧依势，微言毁誉，进类蔽善。
太白出端门，臣有不臣者。
火入室，金上堂，不以时解，其忧凶。
填、岁相守，又主内乱。
宜察萧墙之内，毋急亲疏之微，诛放佞人，防绝萌牙，以荡涤浊濊，消散积恶，毋使得成祸乱。
translation: 
Yang cannot control Yin, and outstanding people in Yin can rise.
During this period, Taibai ruled the day and ruled the sky.
You should make your virtues prosper and work hard to control those who are illegal.
I heard that the moon is the head of all the yins. It waxes and wanes, is the same several times within a hundred miles, and has its shadow for thousands of miles. It is the symbol of concubines, ministers, and princes.
Shuohui determines the end of the month, the semicircle of the moon serves as rules and regulations, and the full moon fulfills the king's virtue. Spring and summer are in the south, and autumn and winter are in the north.
Recently, the moon has been on the same track as the sun several times in spring and summer. When it passed Xuanyuan and ascended the stars, it was infected by the qi. It entered the palace of the Taiwei Emperor and displayed its brilliance, offending the generals and ministers. The stars were dim and the wilted ground seemed to be extinguished. This was because the emperor's mother participated in political affairs and disrupted the government. Both yin and yang were damaged and the two were not harmonious.
Foreign Minister, I don't know what is going on in the court, but I believe that the celestial phenomena are like this, and the ministers close to me can no longer rely on them.
The beams in the house are very large but very thin, which is worrying.
I hope that your Majesty will personally recruit talented people and not ignore them because you dislike them. You should put the country first and make this dynasty noble and strong.
I heard that the five stars of gold, wood, water, fire, and earth are the essence of the five elements. The five emperors and the gods of command respond to the king's orders and regulate them.
The Sui Xing is in charge of things for a year, it is the commander, and it is the criterion on which the king's orders are based. Nowadays, it has lost its temperance and is very popular. This shows that the king wants to make a difference, but he has not lost control.
Moreover, the Zhenxing does not avoid the Sui Xing, which shows that the emperor and the empress were in power together and stayed in Kui and Lou, so they should make decisions based on righteousness.
Yinghuo comes and goes without a certain pattern. He goes through the two palaces of Ziwei and Taiwei, deliberately ups and downs, enters the Tianmen, ascends the Mingtang, penetrates the tail and disturbs the harem.
Taibai quickly offended Kui, which was a sign of military disaster.
Dabai penetrated the Yellow Dragon, entered the imperial court, came out when he encountered the door, followed Yinghuo into the Tianmen, and separated when they reached the room. He wanted to cause chaos with Yinghuo, but finally he did not dare to resist the spirit of Mingtang.
This is because His Majesty is a god, so the disaster did not occur.
When temptation is shaken, sycophants and clever people take advantage of the situation, conspire to slander good deeds and praise evil deeds, recruit their allies and exclude the virtuous.
Taibai came out of Taiwei's main south gate, which indicated that his subordinates had committed something wrong.
Yinghuo enters the camp and Taibai enters the star. If they are not released in time, there may be disaster.
When filling and Sui are together, there will be civil strife.
We should pay attention to the potential harm within, do not ignore the small things between relatives, punish and exile the traitors, prevent and eliminate the budding of things, so as to wash away the filth, eliminate the accumulated evil deeds, and do not let it become a disaster.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
辰星主正四时，当效于四仲；四时失序，则辰星作异。
今出于岁首之孟，天所以谴告陛下也。
政急则出早，政缓则出晚，政绝不行则伏不见而为彗茀。
四孟皆出，为易王命；四季皆出，星家所讳。
今幸独出寅孟之月，盖皇天所以笃右陛下也，宜深自改。
治国故不可以戚戚，欲速则不达。
经曰： 三载考绩，三考黜陟。
加以号令不顺四时，既往不咎，来事之师也。
间者春三月治大狱，时贼阴立逆，恐岁小收；季夏举兵法，时寒气应，恐后有霜雹之灾；秋月行封爵，其月土湿奥，恐后有雷雹之变。
夫以喜怒赏罚，而不顾时禁，虽有尧、舜之心，犹不能致和。
善言天者，必有效于人。
设上农夫而欲冬田，肉袒深耕，汗出种之，然犹不生者，非人心不至，天时不得也。
《易》曰： 时止则止，时行则行，动静不失其时，其道光明。
《书》曰： 敬授民时。
故古之王者，尊天地，重阴阳，敬四时，严月令。
顺之以善政，则和气可立致，犹枹鼓之相应也。
今朝廷忽于时月之令，诸侍中、尚书近臣宜皆令通知月令之意，设群下请事；若陛下出令有谬于时者，当知争之，以顺时气。
臣闻五行以水为本，其星玄武婺女，天地所纪，终始所生。
水为准平，王道公正修明，则百川理，落脉通；偏党失纲，则踊溢为败。
《书》云 水曰润下 ，阴动而卑，不失其道。
天下有道，则河出图，洛出书，故河、洛决溢，所为最大。
今汝、颍畎澮皆川水漂踊，与雨水并为民害，此《诗》所谓 烨烨震电，不宁不令，百川沸腾 者也。
translation: 
The stars are in charge of the four seasons, and should be fulfilled in the four seasons. If the four seasons lose their order, the stars will cause trouble.
Meng, who is now the first of the year, is used by God to warn His Majesty.
If the government order is urgent, it will be issued early; if the government order is lenient, it will be issued late; if the government order is not effective, it will hide and not appear and become a comet.
When the Four Mengdu appear, it will change the king's destiny; when the four seasons appear, astrologers are very taboo.
Fortunately, only Yinmengzhiyue has appeared. This is probably the result of Emperor Tian's blessing. You should reflect on it yourself.
When governing a country, one should not rush for success, as haste makes waste.
The classics say: The officials' performance will be inspected for three years. After three inspections, it will be decided whether the official will be demoted or promoted.
In addition, the orders do not conform to the four seasons, and past mistakes are no longer blamed and investigated. They serve as a reference for future work.
In the past, major lawsuits were handled in March in the spring, and the thieves were blocked by the overcast at that time, which may reduce the harvest of the year; armies were raised in late summer, and the weather was cold accordingly, and I was afraid that there would be disasters of frost and hail;
Implement rewards and punishments according to joy and anger, but ignore the prohibitions of the seasons. Even if you have the will of Yao and Shun, you still cannot make the world harmonious.
People who are good at talking about heaven will definitely benefit people.
Suppose an excellent farmer wants to farm in winter, plowing with bare chests and sweating profusely, but still cannot make the crops grow. This is not because of human inadequacy, but because of unlucky weather.
"Yi" says: Stop when the time comes and proceed when the time comes. If the movement and stillness do not violate the natural order, the future will be bright.
"Book" says: Respectfully give the people the orders of the four seasons.
Therefore, ancient kings respected heaven and earth, valued yin and yang, respected the four seasons, and strictly observed the order of the month.
With obedience to the seasons and good governance, harmonious energy can be obtained immediately, just like holding a drum to respond to each other.
Nowadays, the imperial court has neglected the seasonal and monthly orders. All ministers and ministers close to the emperor should be familiar with the meaning of the monthly orders and establish a system for ministers to ask for matters; if the edict issued by His Majesty violates the seasonal orders, there should be ministers who know about it and give advice, so that they can obey the seasons and solar terms.
I heard that the five elements are based on water, and its star is the Wu Nu star of Xuanwu. It is the law of heaven and earth, and the place where yin and yang end and begin.
If the water nature is flat, if the king's way is fair and sage, then all rivers will be straightened out and the meridians will be unobstructed; if the king's way favors private parties and loses discipline, then water will gush out and cause disaster.
"The Book" says that water can moisten the lower body. It moves in a negative way and has a humble status, but it does not lose its way.
If there is a way in the world, the Yellow River will produce the "River Map", and the Luo River will produce the "Luo Shu". If there is no way in the world, the rivers and Luos will overflow, so what He and Luo do is the greatest.
Nowadays, both the Ru River and Ying River systems have turbulent currents, which together with the rain have become a scourge for the people, causing the flashing thunder and lightning mentioned in the "Poetry", which is neither peaceful nor friendly, and the rivers are boiling.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
其咎在于皇甫卿士之属。
唯陛下留意诗人之言，少抑外亲大臣。
臣闻地道柔静，阴之常义也。
地有上、中、下：其上位震，应妃、后不顺；中位应大臣作乱；下位应庶民离畔。
震或于其国，国君之咎也。
四方中央连国历州俱动者，其异最大。
间者关东地数震，五星作异，亦未大逆，宜务崇阳抑阴，以救其咎；固志建威，闭绝私路，拔进英隽，退不任职，以强本朝。
夫本强则精神折冲，本弱则招殃致凶，为邪谋所陵。
闻往者淮南王作谋之时，其所难者，独有汲黯，以为公孙弘等不足言也。
弘，汉之名相，于今亡比，而尚见轻，何况亡弘之属乎？
故曰朝廷亡人，则为贼乱所轻，其道自然也。
天下未闻陛下奇策固守之臣也。
语曰，何以知朝廷之衰？
人人自贤，不务于通人，故世陵夷。
马不伏历，不可以趋道；士不素养，不可以重国。
《诗》曰 济济多士，文王以宁 ，孔子曰 十室之邑，必有忠信 ，非虚言也。
陛下秉四海之众，曾亡柱干之固守闻于四境，殆闻之不广，取之不明，劝之不笃，传曰： 土之美者善养禾，君之明者善养士。
中人皆可使为君子。
诏书进贤良，赦小过，无求备，以博聚英隽。
如近世贡禹，以言事忠切蒙尊荣，当此之时，士厉身立名者多。
禹死之后，日日以衰。
及京兆尹王章坐言事诛灭，智者结舌，邪伪并兴，外戚颛命，君臣隔塞，至绝继嗣，女宫作乱。
此行事之败，诚可畏而悲也。
本在积任母后之家，非一日之渐，往者不可及，来者犹可追也。
translation: 
The fault is that we have people like Huangfu Qingshi.
I hope your majesty will pay attention to the words of the poet speaker and restrain the foreign ministers a little.
I heard that the earth is soft and peaceful, which is the common sense of Yin.
The earth is divided into upper, middle and lower parts. The upper part vibrates, corresponding to the disobedience of the concubines, the middle part corresponds to the rebellion of the ministers, and the lower part vibrates, corresponding to the rebellion of the people.
If there is an earthquake in the capital of a country, it is the fault of the king of that country.
All the countries and states in the center of the four directions were shaken. This disaster was the greatest.
There have been several earthquakes in Kanto in the past, and the five stars also caused trouble. After all, it was not serious. We should strive to uphold Yang and suppress Yin to make up for our mistakes; we should strengthen our ambitions to establish authority, eliminate private roads, select and appoint talents, and dismiss incompetent officials, so as to make the dynasty strong.
If the foundation is strong, the spirit will thwart conflicts and harms; if the foundation is weak, it will cause disasters and disasters, and be bullied by evil.
I heard that when the King of Huainan rebelled in the past, the only person he had trouble dealing with was Ji An, and he thought Gongsun Hong and others were not worth mentioning.
Gongsun Hong was a famous prime minister of the Han Dynasty. Even today, no one can compare with him. Even his power seems to be weak. What’s more, there is no one like Gongsun Hong.
Therefore, it is natural to say that if there are no virtuous people in the court, they will be despised by thieves and rebellious people.
The world has not heard of anyone who has used clever strategies to defend the country.
Someone asked, how do you know the decline of the imperial court?
Everyone thinks that he is a virtuous person and does not seek advice from virtuous people, so the world is in decline.
If a horse does not eat grass, it cannot travel; if a man does not value intellectuals, he cannot make the country strong.
"The Book of Songs" said that because there were many wise men, King Wen was able to enjoy the world in peace. Confucius said that a small town with only ten families must have loyal people. These are all true.
Your Majesty owns such a vast territory in the world, how come you don’t have the talents to defend the four borders? The reason may be that the path for talents to enter the officialdom is not wide, the selection and appointment are unclear, and the encouragement is not generous. Legend says: Good soil is good at raising seedlings, and a wise monarch is good at supporting talents.
Anyone with moderate qualifications can make them a gentleman.
Your Majesty should issue an edict to select virtuous people, forgive minor mistakes, and not demand full blame, so as to gather talents.
For example, Gong Yu in modern times was honored because he discussed matters sincerely. Therefore, among the scholars at this time, there were many people who worked hard to achieve fame.
After Gongyu died, he became depressed day by day.
When King Yin Wangzhang of Jingzhao was involved in discussing state affairs and was punished for genocide, people who understood were dumbfounded and stopped speaking. Therefore, the trend of evil and sycophancy flourished. The relatives and gangsters monopolized power, and the monarch and his ministers were isolated from each other until the heirs were cut off. Finally, the Zhao Feiyan sisters' rebellion broke out in the capital.
The failure of this matter is truly terrible and tragic.
The fundamental lies in the long-term indulgence of the mother and queen's family. This was not formed in a day. Forget about the past, but we must be cautious about the future.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
先帝大圣，深见天意昭然，使陛下奉承天统，欲矫正之也。
宜少抑外亲，选练左右，举有德行道术通明之士充备天官，然后可以辅圣德，保帝位，承大宗。
下至郎吏从官，行能亡以异，又不通一艺，及博士无文雅者，宜皆使就南亩，以视天下，明朝廷皆贤材君子，于以重朝尊君，灭凶致安，此其本也。
臣自知所言害身，不辟死亡之诛，唯财留神，反复复愚臣之言。
是时，哀帝初立，成帝外家王氏未甚抑黜，而帝外家丁、傅新贵，祖母傅太后尤骄恣，欲称尊号。
丞相孔光、大司空师丹执政谏争，久之，上不得已，遂免光、丹而尊傅太后。
语在《丹传》。
上虽不从寻言，然采其语，每有非常，辄问寻。
寻对屡中，迁黄门侍郎。
以寻言且有水灾，故拜寻为骑都尉，使护河堤。
初，成帝时，齐人甘忠可诈造《天官历》、《包元太平经》十二卷，以言 汉家逢天地之大终，当更受命于天，天帝使真人赤精子，下教我此道。
忠可以教重平夏贺良、容丘丁广世、东郡郭昌等，中垒校尉刘向奏忠可假鬼神罔上惑众，下狱治服，未断病死。
贺良等坐挟学忠可书以不敬论，后贺良等复私以相教。
哀帝初立，司隶校尉解光亦以明经通灾异得幸，白贺良等所挟忠可书。
事下奉车都尉刘歆，歆以为不合《五经》，不可施行。
而李寻亦好之。
光曰： 前歆父向奏忠可下狱，歆安肯通此道？
时，郭昌为长安令，劝寻宜助贺良等。
寻遂白贺良等皆待诏黄门，数诏见，陈说： 汉历中衰，当更受命。
成帝不应天命，故绝嗣。
今陛下久疾，变异屡数，天所以谴告人也。
宜急改元易号，乃得延年益寿，皇子生，灾异息矣。
得道不得行，咎殃且亡，不有洪水将出，灾火且起，涤荡民人。
哀帝久寝疾，几其有益，遂从贺良等议。
于是诏制丞相御史： 盖闻《尚书》 五曰考终命 ，言大运一终，更纪天元人元，考文正理，推历定纪，数如甲子也。
朕以眇身入继太祖，承皇天，总百僚，子元元，未有应天心之效。
即位出入三年，灾变数降，日月失度，星辰错谬，高下贸易，大异连仍，盗贼并起。
translation: 
The late Emperor was a wise man and knew very well the will of Heaven. He wanted to correct it by letting His Majesty inherit the Heavenly Lineage.
We should restrain our relatives a little, select and train people close to us, and appoint virtuous and knowledgeable people to serve as officials. Only in this way can we assist the saints, maintain the throne forever, and inherit the great sect.
Those below who serve as officials, have nothing special to do and are not knowledgeable, and those who have no literary talents among the doctors should be sent back and let them engage in agriculture. This will show the world that the court is full of virtuous and gentlemen, so that the people will pay attention to the court and respect the king, and eliminate evil disasters to bring peace and tranquility. This is fundamental.
I know that what I said is very harmful to myself, but I still risk my life to speak out. I hope you can listen to my opinion and consider my words again and again.
At this time, Emperor Ai had just ascended the throne, and Emperor Cheng's cousin Wang had not yet been deposed. Emperor Ai's relatives Ding and Fu had just become honored. Grandmother Fu was especially arrogant and wanted to claim the honorary title.
Prime Minister Kong Guang and Grand Sikong Shidan were in power and tried their best to dissuade her. After a long time, the emperor had no choice but to dismiss Kong Guang and Shidan and honor the Queen Mother Fu.
This incident is recorded in "The Biography of Shi Dan".
Although the emperor did not act according to Li Xun's words, he accepted his words and would ask Li Xun whenever he encountered something special.
Li Xun's answer was fulfilled many times, and he was promoted to Huangmen Minister.
According to Li Xun's words, there would be floods, so he appointed Li Xun as the Cavalry Captain and asked him to guard the river embankment.
When he became emperor, Gan Zhongke, a native of Qi, forged twelve volumes of "Tianguan Calendar" and "Bao Yuan Taiping Jing", saying that the Han family was at the end of heaven and earth and should be re-empowered by heaven. The emperor of heaven sent the real person Chi Jingyu to go down to the heaven to teach me the art of Taoism.
Therefore, Zhongke taught Zhongping Xia Heliang, Rongqiu Dingguangshi, Dongjun Guochang and others. Zhongke Colonel Liu Xiangxiang reported that Zhongke used ghosts and gods to deceive the king and confuse everyone, so he was thrown into prison and sentenced to death. He died of illness before execution.
He Liang and others were also implicated, and were punished with disrespect for studying Zhongke Shu. Later, He Liang and others discussed and taught each other in private again.
When Emperor Ai just came to the throne, Lieutenant Jie Guang of Sili was also favored because he was proficient in classics and knew about disasters and disasters. He wrote a letter saying that He Liang and others still had a book of loyalty.
This matter was reported to Liu Xin, the captain of Fengche. Liu Xin believed that it was inconsistent with the Five Classics and could not be implemented.
And Li Xun also likes these.
Jie Guang said: In the past, Liu Xin's father Liu wrote to Zhong Ke to be imprisoned. How could Liu Xin be willing to give them this convenience?
Guo Chang was the county magistrate of Chang'an at that time and persuaded Li Xun to help He Liang and others.
Li Xun then wrote to He Liang and others to stay at Shaohuangmen. He was summoned several times and told by Chen Mo that his fate had declined and that he should be reassigned.
Becoming an emperor was not in line with destiny, so he had no descendants.
Now His Majesty has been ill for a long time, and accidents and disasters are frequent. This is God's warning to people.
The Yuan Yi name should be changed immediately to prolong life. As soon as the prince is born, the disaster will subside.
If you know the Tao but cannot practice it, you will definitely be in trouble and will perish. Otherwise, floods will come, fires and other disasters will also occur, leaving the people in dire straits.
Emperor Ai had been bedridden for a long time, hoping that it would be really beneficial, so he listened to the opinions of He Liang and others.
So he issued an edict to the Prime Minister and the Censor: I heard that there is a saying in "Shangshu": "Test one's destiny in five days." This means that once the destiny and great fortune are over, it is necessary to re-record the beginning of heaven and earth and the beginning of the human world.
I inherited Taizu's great cause with my humble body, obeyed the emperor's orders, commanded the princes and ministers, and nurtured the people of Ming Dynasty, but I failed to achieve the results of obeying the will of heaven.
In the nearly three years since he took the throne, many disasters and accidents have occurred. The sun and the moon have lost their regularity, the stars have become disordered, landslides have occurred, water has dried up, major disasters have occurred frequently, and thieves have appeared one after another.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
朕甚俱焉，战战兢兢，唯恐陵夷。
惟汉兴至今二百载，历纪开元，皇天降非材之右，汉国再获受命之符，朕之不德，曷敢不通夫受天之元命，必与天下自新。
其大赦天下，以建平二年为太初元年，号曰陈圣刘太平皇帝。
漏刻以百二十为度。
布告天下，使明知之。
后月余，上疾自若。
贺良等复欲妄变政事，大臣争以为不可许。
贺良等奏言大臣皆不知天命，宜退丞相御史，以解光、李寻辅政。
上以其言亡验，遂下贺良等吏，而下诏曰： 朕获保宗庙，为政不德，变异屡仍，恐惧战栗，未知所繇。
待诏贺良等建言改元易号，增益漏刻，可以永安国家。
朕信道不笃，过听其言，几为百姓获福。
卒无嘉应，久旱为灾。
以问贺良等，对当复改制度，皆背经谊，违圣制，不合时宜。
夫过而不改，是为过矣。
六月甲子诏书，非赦令，它皆蠲除之。
贺良等反道惑众，奸态当穷竟。
皆下狱，光禄勋平当、光禄大夫毛莫如与御史中丞、廷尉杂治，当贺良等执左道，乱朝政，倾覆国家，诬罔主上，不道。
贺良等皆伏诛。
寻及解光减死一等，徙敦煌郡。
赞曰：幽赞神明，通合天人之道者，莫著乎《易》、《春秋》。
然子赣犹云 夫子之文章可得而闻，夫子之言性与天道不可得而闻 已矣。
汉兴，推阴阳言灾异者，孝武时有董仲舒、夏侯始昌；昭、宣则眭孟、夏侯胜；元、成则京房、翼奉、刘向、谷永；哀、平则李寻、田终术。
此其纳说时君著明者也。
察其所言，仿佛一端。
假经设谊，依托象类，或不免乎 亿则屡中 。
translation: 
I am very worried and trembling, fearing that the country will gradually weaken and perish.
Thinking that it has been two hundred years since the rise of the Han Dynasty, the fortune of the country has begun again, the emperor has given me grace to protect me, and the country has regained the fortune to bear the destiny of heaven. Although I have no saintliness, how dare I not obey and accept the great destiny of heaven. We must work with the people of the world to eliminate the old and establish the new.
I hereby decree a general amnesty for the whole world, and regard the second year of Jianping as the first year of Taichu. My title is Emperor Chen Sheng and Liu Taiping.
The scale of the clepsydra is divided into one hundred and twenty degrees.
Announce it to the world and let everyone know clearly.
More than a month passed after this, and the emperor was still ill.
He Liang and others wanted to make random changes in political affairs, but the ministers advised the emperor that they could not allow it.
He Liang and others reported that the ministers did not know the destiny, so they should dismiss the prime minister and censor, and use Jie Guang and Li Xun to assist the government.
Because what they said before had no effect, the emperor handed He Liang and others over to the law enforcement officials and issued an edict saying: I can succeed to the throne and protect the ancestral temple, but my governance is poor and disasters occur frequently. I am worried and afraid, and I don't know what to do.
After the edict, He Liang and others suggested that changing the name of the Yuan Dynasty and increasing the scale of the clepsydra would make the country more stable for a long time.
I did not believe in the teachings of the saints and misunderstood their words, hoping to seek blessings for the people.
But in the end there was no good effect, and the long-term drought caused disaster.
He questioned He Liang and others about this, and they replied that the system should be changed again. Everything he said deviated from the meaning of the scriptures, violated the system of the saints, and was inappropriate for the times.
Making a mistake and refusing to correct it is the real mistake.
All the edicts issued on Jiazi Day in June were abolished except for the Amnesty Day Order.
He Liang and others have deviated from the truth and confuse the public with their evil words. Their crimes must be thoroughly investigated.
They were all imprisoned. Guanglu Xunping, Guanglu doctor Mao Moru, Yushi Zhongcheng and Tingwei jointly tried the case and sentenced He Liang and others to use evil ways to disrupt the government, subvert the country, deceive the emperor and commit treason.
He Liang and others were all killed.
Li Xun's crime was reduced to one level and he was exiled to Dunhuang County.
Praising: "Book of Changes" and "Spring and Autumn" should be recommended first among those who can profoundly explain the supernatural powers of gods and understand the way of heaven and man.
However, Zigong still said: We can hear the Master's articles, but we cannot hear the Master's remarks about sex and the way of heaven.
Since the founding of the Han Dynasty, those who have speculated on the differences between yin and yang in discussing disasters include Dong Zhongshu and Xiahou Shichang during the reign of Emperor Xiaowu; Suimeng and Xiahou Sheng during the reigns of Emperors Zhao and Xuan; Jingfang, Yifeng, Liu Xiang, and Gu Yong during the reigns of Emperors Yuan and Cheng; and Li Xun and Tian Zhongshu during the reigns of Emperors Ai and Ping.
These are some of the famous figures whose theories were adopted by the monarchs of the time.
Looking at what they said, it seems to be exactly the same.
Under the guise of borrowing scriptures and relying on anomalies in celestial phenomena to discuss the gains and losses of political affairs, sometimes it is unavoidable to make repeated guesses.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
仲舒下吏，夏侯囚执，眭孟诛戮，李寻流放，此学者之大戒也。
京房区区，不量浅深，危言刺讥，枢怨强臣，罪辜不旋踵，亦不密以失身，悲夫！
translation: 
Zhongshu was imprisoned by officials, Xiahou was imprisoned, Suimeng was brutally killed, and Li Xun was exiled. These are all things that scholars should take as a warning.
As a young official in the capital, he disregarded his safety and spoke frankly to satirize the current affairs, offending the treacherous ministers in power. Although the disaster of death soon came, it was also because of his imprudent speech that he died tragically. How sad!


