Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 2, 3, 6]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
平原君赵胜者，赵之诸公子也。
诸子中胜最贤，喜宾客，宾客盖至者数千人。
平原君相赵惠文王及孝成王，三去相，三复位，封於东武城。
平原君家楼临民家。
民家有躄者，槃散行汲。
平原君美人居楼上，临见，大笑之。
明日，躄者至平原君门，请曰： 臣闻君之喜士，士不远千里而至者，以君能贵士而贱妾也。
臣不幸有罢癃之病，而君之後宫临而笑臣，臣原得笑臣者头。 平原君笑应曰： 诺。
躄者去，平原君笑曰： 观此竖子，乃欲以一笑之故杀吾美人，不亦甚乎！
终不杀。
居岁馀，宾客门下舍人稍稍引去者过半。
平原君怪之，曰： 胜所以待诸君者未尝敢失礼，而去者何多也？
门下一人前对曰： 以君之不杀笑躄者，以君为爱色而贱士，士即去耳。
於是平原君乃斩笑躄者美人头，自造门进躄者，因谢焉。
其後门下乃复稍稍来。
是时齐有孟尝，魏有信陵，楚有春申，故争相倾以待士。
秦之围邯郸，赵使平原君求救，合从於楚，约与食客门下有勇力文武备具者二十人偕。
平原君曰： 使文能取胜，则善矣。
文不能取胜，则歃血於华屋之下，必得定从而还。
士不外索，取於食客门下足矣。
得十九人，馀无可取者，无以满二十人。
门下有毛遂者，前，自赞於平原君曰： 遂闻君将合从於楚，约与食客门下二十人偕，不外索。
今少一人，原君即以遂备员而行矣。
平原君曰： 先生处胜之门下几年於此矣？
毛遂曰： 三年於此矣。
平原君曰： 夫贤士之处世也，譬若锥之处囊中，其末立见。
今先生处胜之门下三年於此矣，左右未有所称诵，胜未有所闻，是先生无所有也。
先生不能，先生留。
translation: 
Zhao Sheng, Lord of Pingyuan, was a young master of the State of Zhao.
Among the many princes, Zhao Sheng was the most virtuous and talented. He was hospitable and cultivated scholars. There were about thousands of guests who came to his sect.
Lord Pingyuan served as the prime minister of King Zhao Huiwen and King Xiaocheng. He left the position of prime minister three times and was reinstated three times. His fiefdom was in Dongwu City.
Mr. Pingyuan's house has a tall building facing the houses below.
There was a lame man in the house who always limped out to fetch water.
A beautiful concubine of Mr. Pingyuan lived upstairs. One day she looked down and saw the lame man fetching water, and she burst out laughing.
The next day, the cripple came to Lord Pingyuan's house and asked: "I heard that you love scholars. The reason why scholars are not afraid of traveling thousands of miles to join your family is because you value scholars and despise concubines."
I was unfortunately ill and disabled, but your concubine was laughing at me from a high building. I wanted to get the head of the person who laughed at me. Mr. Pingyuan smiled and replied: "Okay."
After the lame man left, Lord Pingyuan smiled again and said: Look at this boy, he wants to kill my concubine just because of a smile. Isn't it too much?
I didn't kill that person after all.
More than a year later, more than half of the guests and diners on errands left one after another.
Mr. Pingyuan felt very strange about this situation and said: I, Zhao Sheng, never dare to be rude in all aspects of my treatment of gentlemen, but why are so many people leaving me?
A retainer stepped forward and replied: Because you did not kill the concubine who laughed at the cripple, everyone thought that you liked beauty and despised the scholars, so the scholars left one after another.
So Lord Pingyuan cut off the head of the concubine who laughed at the cripple. He personally visited the lame man's house and offered it to him, and took the opportunity to apologize to him.
From then on, the original guests came back one after another.
At that time, Qi State had Lord Mengchang, Wei State had Lord Xinling, and Chu State had Lord Chunshen. They were all hospitable to scholars, so they competed to be more courteous to scholars than others in order to attract more talents to themselves.
When the Qin State besieged Handan, King Zhao sent Lord Pingyuan to ask for help. At that time, he planned to recommend Chu as the leader of the alliance and make a joint alliance to fight against Qin. Lord Pingyuan agreed to go to Chu State with twenty of his followers who were brave, resourceful, and capable of both civil and military affairs.
Mr. Pingyuan said: It would be best if we can succeed through polite negotiations.
If the negotiation fails to succeed, then the king of Chu will be coerced to confirm the alliance in public, and he must confirm the alliance before returning home.
The civil and military people who are going with me don’t have to look outside. It’s enough to choose from the diners under my sect.
In the end, nineteen people were selected, and there was nothing left to choose from. There was no way to gather twenty people.
At this time, a man named Mao Sui among the diners walked up to the front and recommended himself to Lord Pingyuan: I heard that you are going to Chu State, and let Chu State be the leader of the alliance to make an alliance. You also agreed to go with twenty diners, and no one will go outside to search.
There is still one person missing now, I hope you can use me to recharge and go together.
Mr. Pingyuan asked: How many years has it been since Mr. Wang stayed with me?
Mao Sui replied: It has been three years now.
Mr. Pingyuan said: A talented wise man living in the world is like an awl placed in a pocket, its sharp edge will be revealed immediately.
It has been three years since your husband has been under my care for three years now. None of my close ministers have ever praised or recommended you, and I have never heard of you. This is because your husband has no expertise.
Sir, you can't go. Sir, please stay.
summary:
Zhao Sheng, Lord of Pingyuan, was a virtuous and talented young master of the State of Zhao, known for hosting thousands of scholars. He served as prime minister under Kings Huiwen and Xiaocheng, leaving and returning to the position three times, with his fief in Dongwu City. A crippled man fetching water near his home was laughed at by one of Lord Pingyuan’s concubines. The cripple demanded her head, but Lord Pingyuan initially refused, causing many scholars to leave. He later killed the concubine and apologized to the cripple, regaining his guests.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
毛遂曰： 臣乃今日请处囊中耳。
使遂蚤得处囊中，乃颖脱而出，非特其末见而已。
平原君竟与毛遂偕。
十九人相与目笑之而未废也。
毛遂比至楚，与十九人论议，十九人皆服。
平原君与楚合从，言其利害，日出而言之，日中不决。十九人谓毛遂曰： 先生上。
毛遂按剑历阶而上，谓平原君曰： 从之利害，两言而决耳。
今日出而言从，日中不决，何也？
楚王谓平原君曰： 客何为者也？
平原君曰： 是胜之舍人也。
楚王叱曰： 胡不下！
吾乃与而君言，汝何为者也！
毛遂按剑而前曰： 王之所以叱遂者，以楚国之众也。
今十步之内，王不得恃楚国之众也，王之命县於遂手。
吾君在前，叱者何也？
且遂闻汤以七十里之地王天下，文王以百里之壤而臣诸侯，岂其士卒众多哉，诚能据其势而奋其威。
今楚地方五千里，持戟百万，此霸王之资也。
以楚之彊，天下弗能当。
白起，小竖子耳，率数万之众，兴师以与楚战，一战而举鄢郢，再战而烧夷陵，三战而辱王之先人。
此百世之怨而赵之所羞，而王弗知恶焉。
合从者为楚，非为赵也。
吾君在前，叱者何也？
楚王曰： 唯唯，诚若先生之言，谨奉社稷而以从。
毛遂曰： 从定乎？
楚王曰： 定矣。
毛遂谓楚王之左右曰： 取鸡狗马之血来。
毛遂奉铜槃而跪进之楚王曰： 王当歃血而定从，次者吾君，次者遂。
遂定从於殿上。
毛遂左手持槃血而右手招十九人曰： 公相与歃此血於堂下。公等录录，所谓因人成事者也。
translation: 
Mao Sui said: I just want to put it in my pocket today.
If I had been placed in the pocket, the entire cone would have been exposed, not just the tip.
Lord Pingyuan finally agreed to let Mao Sui go with him.
The nineteen people winked at each other and laughed at Mao Sui secretly, but did not make a sound.
When Mao Sui arrived in Chu, he discussed and argued with the nineteen people about the situation in the world. All nineteen people admired him.
The Lord of Pingyuan negotiated with the King of Chu to establish a joint alliance. They repeatedly stated their interests. They negotiated from morning until noon until no decision was made. The nineteen people encouraged Mao Sui and said: "Sir, please come to the court."
So Mao Sui gripped the hilt of his sword tightly, trotted all the way up the steps to the palace, and said to Lord Pingyuan: Talking about cooperation is either beneficial or harmful, just two sentences.
Now we have been talking about the marriage since the morning, but by noon we still can’t decide. What’s the reason?
When the King of Chu saw Mao Sui coming to the court, he said to Lord Pingyuan: "What does this man do?"
Lord Pingyuan replied: "This is my retainer."
The King of Chu shouted sternly: "Why don't you let me go down?"
I'm negotiating with your master, what are you doing here?
Mao Sui clenched the hilt of his sword and stepped forward and said, "Your Majesty, you dare to scold me, but you are relying on the large number of people in Chu."
Now I am only ten steps away from you. Within ten steps, the king cannot rely on the large number of people in Chu. The king's life is in my hands.
My master is right in front of me. Why are you scolding me like this in front of him?
Moreover, I heard that Shang Tang once ruled the world with a land of seventy miles, and King Wen of Zhou made the world surrender with a land of a hundred miles. Is it because they had many soldiers? In fact, it was because they were good at grasping the situation and exerting their power.
Nowadays, the Chu State has a territory of 5,000 miles and millions of soldiers. This is the capital it relies on to strive for kingship and hegemony.
With the Chu State being so powerful, no one in the world could stop its power.
Bai Qi of the Qin State was just a child. With tens of thousands of troops, he sent troops to fight against the Chu State. In the first battle, he captured Yancheng and Yingdu, in the second battle, he burned Yiling, and in the third battle, the king's ancestors were greatly humiliated.
This is a hatred that has lasted for centuries in the Chu Kingdom. Even King Zhao felt ashamed, but the king did not feel ashamed.
The alliance alliance is for the Chu State, not for the Zhao State.
My master is right in front of me, why are you scolding me like this?
After hearing Mao Sui's words, the King of Chu immediately changed his attitude and said: Yes, yes, it is indeed as the gentleman said. I will do my best to fulfill the alliance covenant.
Mao Sui pressed further and asked: Is the alliance agreement confirmed?
King Chu replied: "It's confirmed."
So Mao Sui said to the king of Chu's ministers in a commanding tone: "Bring the blood of chickens, dogs, and horses."
Mao Sui knelt down with the copper plate in his hands, presented it to the King of Chu and said: Your Majesty, you should suck the blood first to show your sincerity in confirming the alliance. The next one is my master, and the next one is me.
In this way, the alliance alliance was confirmed in the palace of Chu State.
At this time, Mao Sui held up a plate of blood with his left hand and called to the nineteen people with his right hand: "Everyone in the audience will also suck the blood from the plate. Although you are mediocre, you have completed your task. This is what is called relying on the strength of others to complete your task."
summary:
When Qin besieged Handan, Lord Pingyuan sought help from Chu to form an alliance. He needed twenty followers but could only find nineteen. Mao Sui, a retainer for three years, volunteered. Lord Pingyuan doubted his abilities, but Mao Sui argued that if placed in a pocket, the entire awl would show, not just its tip. Mao Sui joined and impressed the others. In Chu, negotiations stalled until Mao Sui confronted the King of Chu, threatening him and highlighting Chu’s past defeats by Qin. The king agreed to the alliance, and Mao Sui sealed it with a blood oath. Lord Pingyuan later praised Mao Sui as more powerful than an army.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
平原君已定从而归，归至於赵，曰： 胜不敢复相士。
胜相士多者千人，寡者百数，自以为不失天下之士，今乃於毛先生而失之也。
毛先生一至楚，而使赵重於九鼎大吕。
毛先生以三寸之舌，强于百万之师。
胜不敢复相士。
遂以为上客。
平原君既返赵，楚使春申君将兵赴救赵，魏信陵君亦矫夺晋鄙军往救赵，皆未至。
秦急围邯郸，邯郸急，且降，平原君甚患之。
邯郸传舍吏子李同说平原君曰： 君不忧赵亡邪？
平原君曰： 赵亡则胜为虏，何为不忧乎？
李同曰： 邯郸之民，炊骨易子而食，可谓急矣，而君之後宫以百数，婢妾被绮縠，馀粱肉，而民褐衣不完，糟糠不厌。
民困兵尽，或剡木为矛矢，而君器物锺磬自若。
使秦破赵，君安得有此？
使赵得全，君何患无有？
今君诚能令夫人以下编於士卒之间，分功而作，家之所有尽散以飨士，士方其危苦之时，易德耳。
於是平原君从之，得敢死之士三千人。
李同遂与三千人赴秦军，秦军为之卻三十里。
亦会楚、魏救至，秦兵遂罢，邯郸复存。
李同战死，封其父为李侯。
虞卿欲以信陵君之存邯郸为平原君请封。
公孙龙闻之，夜驾见平原君曰： 龙闻虞卿欲以信陵君之存邯郸为君请封，有之乎？
平原君曰： 然。
龙曰： 此甚不可。
且王举君而相赵者，非以君之智能为赵国无有也。
割东武城而封君者，非以君为有功也，而以国人无勋，乃以君为亲戚故也。
translation: 
Lord Pingyuan confirmed the alliance and returned to Zhao State. After returning to Zhao State, he said: I don't dare to observe and identify talents anymore.
When I observe and identify talents, I say thousands at most and hundreds at least. I thought I would not miss out on all the talented people in the world, but now I have missed Mr. Mao.
Mr. Mao's first visit to the Chu State made the status of the Zhao State more noble than the national treasure of Jiuding Dalu.
Mr. Mao, with his eloquent mouth, was actually more powerful than an army of millions.
I no longer dare to observe and identify talents.
So he treated Mao Sui as a distinguished guest.
After Lord Pingyuan returned to the State of Zhao, the State of Chu sent Lord Chunshen to lead troops to rescue Zhao State. Lord Xinling of Wei State also pretended to ask for his orders and seized the military power of Jin Bi to lead troops to rescue State of Zhao, but none of them arrived yet.
At this time, Qin State quickly besieged Handan. Handan was in a hurry and was about to surrender. Lord Pingyuan was extremely anxious.
Li Tong, the son of an official at the Handan Hotel, persuaded Lord Pingyuan: "Aren't you worried about the demise of Zhao?"
Lord Pingyuan said: If Zhao is destroyed, then I will be a prisoner. Why not worry?
Li Tong said: "The people of Handan are using human bones as firewood and exchanging children for food. It can be said that they are in extreme danger. However, you have hundreds of concubines and maids in your harem. The maids wear silk embroidered clothes and cannot eat the fine food. However, the people are unable to cover themselves with coarse shorts and cannot eat enough wine dregs and grain husks."
The people are tired and their weapons are exhausted. Some people sharpen wood to use as spears and arrows, but your precious playthings, copper bells and jade, are still intact.
If the Qin army breaks Zhao, how can you have these things?
If the State of Zhao can be preserved, why would you worry about not having these things?
Now you can really order all the members below the wife to be organized into the soldiers, and they will be responsible for the labor of guarding the city, and distribute all the things in the house for the soldiers to enjoy. When the soldiers are in crisis and hardship, it is easy to be grateful.
So Pingyuan Jun adopted Li Tong's advice and got 3,000 soldiers who dared to risk their lives.
Li Tong joined a team of 3,000 people and rushed to the Qin army for a decisive battle. As a result, the Qin army was pushed back thirty miles.
At this time, it happened that reinforcements from Chu and Wei arrived, and the Qin army withdrew, and Handan was preserved.
Li Tong was killed in battle with the Qin army, and his father was granted the title of Marquis Li.
Yu Qing wanted to request additional fiefdoms for Lord Pingyuan on the grounds that Lord Xinling sent troops to save Zhao and saved Handan.
When Gongsun Long heard the news, he drove overnight to see Lord Pingyuan and said: I heard that Yu Qing wanted to ask for additional fiefs on your behalf on the grounds that Lord Xinling sent troops to save Zhao and saved Handan. Is this true?
Mr. Pingyuan replied: Yes.
Gongsun Long said: This is very inappropriate.
It is said that the monarch appointed you as the prime minister of Zhao State, not because your intelligence and talent are unique to Zhao State and no one else has them.
The title of Dongwu City is granted to you not because of your meritorious deeds, but because you are a close relative of the monarch.
summary:
After returning, Chu and Wei sent reinforcements, but Handan remained in danger. Li Tong advised Lord Pingyuan to mobilize his household and distribute resources to the people, gaining 3,000 volunteers. Li Tong died in battle, pushing Qin back thirty miles, and Handan was saved when reinforcements arrived. Yu Qing sought additional fiefs for Lord Pingyuan, but Gongsun Long argued against it, noting Lord Pingyuan’s position and fief were due to kinship, not merit, and that Yu Qing’s proposal was self-serving. Lord Pingyuan rejected the request.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
君受相印不辞无能，割地不言无功者，亦自以为亲戚故也。
今信陵君存邯郸而请封，是亲戚受城而国人计功也。
此甚不可。
且虞卿操其两权，事成，操右券以责；事不成，以虚名德君。
君必勿听也。
平原君遂不听虞卿。
平原君以赵孝成王十五年卒。
子孙代，後竟与赵俱亡。
平原君厚待公孙龙。
公孙龙善为坚白之辩，及邹衍过赵言至道，乃绌公孙龙。
虞卿者，游说之士也。蹑蹻檐簦说赵孝成王。
一见，赐黄金百镒，白璧一双；再见，为赵上卿，故号为虞卿。
秦赵战於长平，赵不胜，亡一都尉。
赵王召楼昌与虞卿曰： 军战不胜，尉复死，寡人使束甲而趋之，何如？
楼昌曰： 无益也，不如发重使为媾。
虞卿曰： 昌言媾者，以为不媾军必破也。
而制媾者在秦。
且王之论秦也，欲破赵之军乎，不邪？
王曰： 秦不遗馀力矣，必且欲破赵军。
虞卿曰： 王听臣，发使出重宝以附楚、魏，楚、魏欲得王之重宝，必内吾使。
赵使入楚、魏，秦必疑天下之合从，且必恐。
如此，则媾乃可为也。
赵王不听，与平阳君为媾，发郑硃入秦。
秦内之。
赵王召虞卿曰： 寡人使平阳君为媾於秦，秦已内郑硃矣，卿之为奚如？
虞卿对曰： 王不得媾，军必破矣。
天下贺战者皆在秦矣。
郑硃，贵人也，入秦，秦王与应侯必显重以示天下。
translation: 
You didn't refuse to accept the seal because you were incompetent, and you didn't refuse to accept the title because you had no merit. It was also because you considered yourself a close relative of the monarch.
Now Lord Xinling has sent troops to save Handan and you ask for an increase in the number of fiefs. This is because you accepted the fiefs as close relatives when you had no merit, but when you did meritorious service, you asked for rewards based on ordinary people's merits.
This is obviously very inappropriate.
Moreover, Yu Qing holds the initiative on both sides of success and failure. If the thing succeeds, he will ask for compensation like a deed to collect debt; if the thing does not succeed, he will use the false name of claiming credit for you to make you grateful to him.
You must not listen to his advice.
Lord Pingyuan then rejected Yu Qing's suggestion.
Lord Pingyuan died in the fifteenth year of King Zhao Xiaocheng's reign.
Lord Pingyuan's descendants inherited his title from generation to generation, and his descendants were finally cut off when the Zhao Kingdom was destroyed.
Lord Pingyuan treated Gongsun Long very kindly.
Gongsun Long was good at debating the "Li Jian Bai" proposition. When Zou Yan visited Zhao State, he discussed the most upright principles and refuted Gongsun Long's famous debate proposition. After that, Lord Pingyuan dismissed Gongsun Long.
Yu Qing was a talented person who was good at lobbying. He wore straw sandals and an umbrella on his shoulders and came all the way to lobby King Zhao Xiaocheng.
When he visited King Zhao for the first time, King Zhao gave him a hundred yi of gold and a pair of white jade. When he visited King Zhao for the second time, he became the minister of Zhao, so he was called Yu Qing.
Qin and Zhao fought in Changping. Zhao was unfavorable in the first battle and lost one captain.
King Zhao summoned Lou Chang and Yu Qing to discuss the situation and said: "Our army did not go well in the first battle and the captain died in battle. I will roll up my armor and go to the enemy to fight the Qin army. What do you think?"
Lou Chang said: If there is no benefit, it is better to send important envoys to seek peace.
Yu Qing said: The reason why Lou Chang advocated for peace was that he believed that if he did not seek peace, our army would be defeated.
But the initiative to control the peace talks lies with Qin.
Moreover, Your Majesty, please estimate Qin's war intention. Is it to defeat Zhao's army, or not?
King Zhao replied: Qin has tried its best without reservation and will definitely defeat Zhao Jun.
Yu Qing went on to say: Your Majesty listened to my words and sent envoys to bring valuable treasures to unite Chu and Wei. If Chu and Wei want to get your Majesty's valuable treasures, they will definitely accept our envoys.
When envoys from the State of Zhao enter Chu and Wei, the State of Qin will definitely suspect that all the princes in the world are united to fight against Qin, and will definitely panic.
In this way, peace talks can proceed.
King Zhao did not listen to Yu Qing's advice and negotiated peace with Pingyang Lord Zhao Bao, so he sent Zheng Zhuxian to Qin to contact Qin.
Qin accepted Zheng Zhu.
King Zhao summoned Yu Qing again and said: I sent Lord Pingyang to Qin to seek peace. Qin has accepted Zheng and Zhu. What do you think?
Yu Qing replied: If the king's peace talks cannot succeed, Zhao Jun will definitely be defeated.
The envoys from all the princes in the world to congratulate Qin on its victory are all in Qin.
Zheng Zhu is a noble person. When he enters Qin, the king of Qin and the princes of Ying will definitely publicize Zheng Zhu's arrival in Qin and show it to all the princes in the world.
summary:
Lord Pingyuan died in the fifteenth year of King Xiaocheng’s reign, and his descendants held the title until Zhao’s fall. He treated Gongsun Long well but dismissed him after Zou Yan refuted his debates. Yu Qing, a skilled lobbyist, advised King Zhao against ceding land to Qin after the Changping defeat, proposing instead to ally with Qi. King Zhao initially agreed but later followed Lou Huan’s advice to cede land, leading to further conflict. Yu Qing eventually fled to Daliang, where he wrote “Yu’s Spring and Autumn Annals,” criticizing political failures.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
王以此发声，兵未窥於境，臣见秦之重赂至赵而反媾於王也。
从秦为媾，韩、魏闻之，必尽重王；重王，必出重宝以先於王。
则是王一举而结三国之亲，而与秦易道也。 赵王曰： 善。
则使虞卿东见齐王，与之谋秦。
虞卿未返，秦使者已在赵矣。
楼缓闻之，亡去。
赵於是封虞卿以一城。
居顷之，而魏请为从。
赵孝成王召虞卿谋。过平原君，平原君曰： 原卿之论从也。
虞卿入见王。
王曰： 魏请为从。
对曰： 魏过。
王曰： 寡人固未之许。
对曰： 王过。
王曰： 魏请从，卿曰魏过，寡人未之许，又曰寡人过，然则从终不可乎？
对曰： 臣闻小国之与大国从事也，有利则大国受其福，有败则小国受其祸。
今魏以小国请其祸，而王以大国辞其福，臣故曰王过，魏亦过。
窃以为从便。 王曰： 善。
乃合魏为从。
虞卿既以魏齐之故，不重万户侯卿相之印，与魏齐间行，卒去赵，困於梁。
魏齐已死，不得意，乃著书，上采春秋，下观近世，曰节义、称号、揣摩、政谋，凡八篇。
以刺讥国家得失，世传之曰虞氏春秋。
太史公曰：平原君，翩翩浊世之佳公子也，然未睹大体。
鄙语曰 利令智昏 ，平原君贪冯亭邪说，使赵陷长平兵四十馀万众，邯郸几亡。
虞卿料事揣情，为赵画策，何其工也！
及不忍魏齐，卒困於大梁，庸夫且知其不可，况贤人乎？
然虞卿非穷愁，亦不能著书以自见於後世云。
translation: 
Your Majesty, spread the word about the alliance between Qi and Zhao. Our troops will not have to go to the border to conduct reconnaissance. I will see Qin's valuable gifts sent to Zhao and in turn sue for peace from your Majesty.
Once peace is made with the King of Qin, when Han and Wei hear the news, they will try their best to respect the King. Since they want to respect the King, they must take out precious treasures and rush to pay tribute to the King.
In this way, the king's move can establish friendship with the three countries of Han, Wei, and Qi, and thus change the status of dealing with Qin. After hearing this, King Zhao said: Great.
So he sent Yu Qing east to visit the King of Qi and discuss with him the issue of attacking Qin.
Before Yu Qing returned to Qi, Qin's envoys were already in Zhao.
When Lou Huan learned the news, he immediately ran away.
King Zhao then granted a city to Yu Qing. Soon after, Wei State requested a treaty with Zhao State.
King Zhao Xiaocheng summoned Yu Qing to discuss the matter.
Yu Qing first went to visit Lord Pingyuan. Lord Pingyuan said: I hope to hear you discuss the way of combining vertical and horizontal lines.
Yu Qing entered the palace to meet King Zhao.
King Zhao said: The state of Wei requested an alliance.
Yu Qing said: Wei Guo was wrong.
King Zhao said: I didn't agree to it at first.
Yu Qing said: Your Majesty is wrong.
King Zhao said: Wei Guo asked for alliance, but you said Wei Guo was wrong; I did not agree to it, and you said I was wrong again. In this case, is it impossible to form a vertical alliance after all?
Yu Qing replied: I heard that small countries work together with big countries. If there are benefits, the big countries will enjoy the fruits, and if there are disadvantages, the small countries will bear the disasters.
The current situation is that Wei is willing to bear the disaster as a small country, but you refuse to enjoy the fruits as a big country. So I say that the king is wrong, and the state of Wei is also wrong.
I personally think that a vertical alliance is beneficial. King Zhao said: OK.
So he made an alliance with Wei State.
Because of Wei Qi, the Prime Minister of Wei State, Yu Qing preferred to abandon the title of Marquis of Wanhu and the Prime Minister's seal, and fled from a small road with Wei Qi. Finally, he left Zhao State and was trapped in Daliang of Wei State.
After Wei Qi's death, Yu Qing became even more dissatisfied. He wrote a book, collected historical facts from "Spring and Autumn", observed the modern world situation, and wrote a total of eight articles: "Jieyi", "Title", "Speculation" and "Political Strategy".
It is used to criticize the success and failure of national politics. It has been circulated in the world and is called "Yu's Spring and Autumn Annals".
Tai Shigong said: Mr. Pingyuan is a handsome and talented son in troubled times, but he cannot understand the overall situation.
As the saying goes: greed for personal gain will lead to loss of reason. Lord Pingyuan believed in Feng Ting's heresy and coveted the Shangdang he gave, which led to the Zhao State's defeat in Changping, more than 400,000 Zhao soldiers were killed, and the Zhao State was almost destroyed.
Yu Qing analyzed the affairs, speculated on the situation, and made suggestions for the State of Zhao. How thoughtful and ingenious he was!
In the end, I couldn't bear to watch Wei Qi being hunted down, and finally found himself in trouble in Daliang. Ordinary people knew they couldn't do this, let alone talented people.
But if Yu Qing had not been poor and sad, he would not have been able to write books and make his reputation known to the world and pass on to future generations.
summary:
Tai Shigong noted that Lord Pingyuan, though talented, failed to grasp the bigger picture, leading to Zhao’s defeat at Changping and the loss of 400,000 soldiers. Yu Qing’s plans were thoughtful, but his inability to avoid trouble in Daliang highlighted his flaws, though his writings ensured his legacy.

