Chunk 0: 
original: 
平原君赵胜者，赵之诸公子也。
诸子中胜最贤，喜宾客，宾客盖至者数千人。
平原君相赵惠文王及孝成王，三去相，三复位，封於东武城。
平原君家楼临民家。
民家有躄者，槃散行汲。
平原君美人居楼上，临见，大笑之。
明日，躄者至平原君门，请曰： 臣闻君之喜士，士不远千里而至者，以君能贵士而贱妾也。
臣不幸有罢癃之病，而君之後宫临而笑臣，臣原得笑臣者头。 平原君笑应曰： 诺。
躄者去，平原君笑曰： 观此竖子，乃欲以一笑之故杀吾美人，不亦甚乎！
终不杀。
居岁馀，宾客门下舍人稍稍引去者过半。
平原君怪之，曰： 胜所以待诸君者未尝敢失礼，而去者何多也？
门下一人前对曰： 以君之不杀笑躄者，以君为爱色而贱士，士即去耳。
於是平原君乃斩笑躄者美人头，自造门进躄者，因谢焉。
其後门下乃复稍稍来。
是时齐有孟尝，魏有信陵，楚有春申，故争相倾以待士。
秦之围邯郸，赵使平原君求救，合从於楚，约与食客门下有勇力文武备具者二十人偕。
平原君曰： 使文能取胜，则善矣。
文不能取胜，则歃血於华屋之下，必得定从而还。
士不外索，取於食客门下足矣。
得十九人，馀无可取者，无以满二十人。
门下有毛遂者，前，自赞於平原君曰： 遂闻君将合从於楚，约与食客门下二十人偕，不外索。
今少一人，原君即以遂备员而行矣。
平原君曰： 先生处胜之门下几年於此矣？
毛遂曰： 三年於此矣。
平原君曰： 夫贤士之处世也，譬若锥之处囊中，其末立见。
今先生处胜之门下三年於此矣，左右未有所称诵，胜未有所闻，是先生无所有也。
先生不能，先生留。
translation: 
Zhao Sheng, Lord of Pingyuan, was a young master of the State of Zhao.
Among the many princes, Zhao Sheng was the most virtuous and talented. He was hospitable and cultivated scholars. There were about thousands of guests who came to his sect.
Lord Pingyuan served as the prime minister of King Zhao Huiwen and King Xiaocheng. He left the position of prime minister three times and was reinstated three times. His fiefdom was in Dongwu City.
Mr. Pingyuan's house has a tall building facing the houses below.
There was a lame man in the house who always limped out to fetch water.
A beautiful concubine of Mr. Pingyuan lived upstairs. One day she looked down and saw the lame man fetching water, and she burst out laughing.
The next day, the cripple came to Lord Pingyuan's house and asked: "I heard that you love scholars. The reason why scholars are not afraid of traveling thousands of miles to join your family is because you value scholars and despise concubines."
I was unfortunately ill and disabled, but your concubine was laughing at me from a high building. I wanted to get the head of the person who laughed at me. Mr. Pingyuan smiled and replied: "Okay."
After the lame man left, Lord Pingyuan smiled again and said: Look at this boy, he wants to kill my concubine just because of a smile. Isn't it too much?
I didn't kill that person after all.
More than a year later, more than half of the guests and diners on errands left one after another.
Mr. Pingyuan felt very strange about this situation and said: I, Zhao Sheng, never dare to be rude in all aspects of my treatment of gentlemen, but why are so many people leaving me?
A retainer stepped forward and replied: Because you did not kill the concubine who laughed at the cripple, everyone thought that you liked beauty and despised the scholars, so the scholars left one after another.
So Lord Pingyuan cut off the head of the concubine who laughed at the cripple. He personally visited the lame man's house and offered it to him, and took the opportunity to apologize to him.
From then on, the original guests came back one after another.
At that time, Qi State had Lord Mengchang, Wei State had Lord Xinling, and Chu State had Lord Chunshen. They were all hospitable to scholars, so they competed to be more courteous to scholars than others in order to attract more talents to themselves.
When the Qin State besieged Handan, King Zhao sent Lord Pingyuan to ask for help. At that time, he planned to recommend Chu as the leader of the alliance and make a joint alliance to fight against Qin. Lord Pingyuan agreed to go to Chu State with twenty of his followers who were brave, resourceful, and capable of both civil and military affairs.
Mr. Pingyuan said: It would be best if we can succeed through polite negotiations.
If the negotiation fails to succeed, then the king of Chu will be coerced to confirm the alliance in public, and he must confirm the alliance before returning home.
The civil and military people who are going with me don’t have to look outside. It’s enough to choose from the diners under my sect.
In the end, nineteen people were selected, and there was nothing left to choose from. There was no way to gather twenty people.
At this time, a man named Mao Sui among the diners walked up to the front and recommended himself to Lord Pingyuan: I heard that you are going to Chu State, and let Chu State be the leader of the alliance to make an alliance. You also agreed to go with twenty diners, and no one will go outside to search.
There is still one person missing now, I hope you can use me to recharge and go together.
Mr. Pingyuan asked: How many years has it been since Mr. Wang stayed with me?
Mao Sui replied: It has been three years now.
Mr. Pingyuan said: A talented wise man living in the world is like an awl placed in a pocket, its sharp edge will be revealed immediately.
It has been three years since your husband has been under my care for three years now. None of my close ministers have ever praised or recommended you, and I have never heard of you. This is because your husband has no expertise.
Sir, you can't go. Sir, please stay.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
毛遂曰： 臣乃今日请处囊中耳。
使遂蚤得处囊中，乃颖脱而出，非特其末见而已。
平原君竟与毛遂偕。
十九人相与目笑之而未废也。
毛遂比至楚，与十九人论议，十九人皆服。
平原君与楚合从，言其利害，日出而言之，日中不决。十九人谓毛遂曰： 先生上。
毛遂按剑历阶而上，谓平原君曰： 从之利害，两言而决耳。
今日出而言从，日中不决，何也？
楚王谓平原君曰： 客何为者也？
平原君曰： 是胜之舍人也。
楚王叱曰： 胡不下！
吾乃与而君言，汝何为者也！
毛遂按剑而前曰： 王之所以叱遂者，以楚国之众也。
今十步之内，王不得恃楚国之众也，王之命县於遂手。
吾君在前，叱者何也？
且遂闻汤以七十里之地王天下，文王以百里之壤而臣诸侯，岂其士卒众多哉，诚能据其势而奋其威。
今楚地方五千里，持戟百万，此霸王之资也。
以楚之彊，天下弗能当。
白起，小竖子耳，率数万之众，兴师以与楚战，一战而举鄢郢，再战而烧夷陵，三战而辱王之先人。
此百世之怨而赵之所羞，而王弗知恶焉。
合从者为楚，非为赵也。
吾君在前，叱者何也？
楚王曰： 唯唯，诚若先生之言，谨奉社稷而以从。
毛遂曰： 从定乎？
楚王曰： 定矣。
毛遂谓楚王之左右曰： 取鸡狗马之血来。
毛遂奉铜槃而跪进之楚王曰： 王当歃血而定从，次者吾君，次者遂。
遂定从於殿上。
毛遂左手持槃血而右手招十九人曰： 公相与歃此血於堂下。公等录录，所谓因人成事者也。
translation: 
Mao Sui said: I just want to put it in my pocket today.
If I had been placed in the pocket, the entire cone would have been exposed, not just the tip.
Lord Pingyuan finally agreed to let Mao Sui go with him.
The nineteen people winked at each other and laughed at Mao Sui secretly, but did not make a sound.
When Mao Sui arrived in Chu, he discussed and argued with the nineteen people about the situation in the world. All nineteen people admired him.
The Lord of Pingyuan negotiated with the King of Chu to establish a joint alliance. They repeatedly stated their interests. They negotiated from morning until noon until no decision was made. The nineteen people encouraged Mao Sui and said: "Sir, please come to the court."
So Mao Sui gripped the hilt of his sword tightly, trotted all the way up the steps to the palace, and said to Lord Pingyuan: Talking about cooperation is either beneficial or harmful, just two sentences.
Now we have been talking about the marriage since the morning, but by noon we still can’t decide. What’s the reason?
When the King of Chu saw Mao Sui coming to the court, he said to Lord Pingyuan: "What does this man do?"
Lord Pingyuan replied: "This is my retainer."
The King of Chu shouted sternly: "Why don't you let me go down?"
I'm negotiating with your master, what are you doing here?
Mao Sui clenched the hilt of his sword and stepped forward and said, "Your Majesty, you dare to scold me, but you are relying on the large number of people in Chu."
Now I am only ten steps away from you. Within ten steps, the king cannot rely on the large number of people in Chu. The king's life is in my hands.
My master is right in front of me. Why are you scolding me like this in front of him?
Moreover, I heard that Shang Tang once ruled the world with a land of seventy miles, and King Wen of Zhou made the world surrender with a land of a hundred miles. Is it because they had many soldiers? In fact, it was because they were good at grasping the situation and exerting their power.
Nowadays, the Chu State has a territory of 5,000 miles and millions of soldiers. This is the capital it relies on to strive for kingship and hegemony.
With the Chu State being so powerful, no one in the world could stop its power.
Bai Qi of the Qin State was just a child. With tens of thousands of troops, he sent troops to fight against the Chu State. In the first battle, he captured Yancheng and Yingdu, in the second battle, he burned Yiling, and in the third battle, the king's ancestors were greatly humiliated.
This is a hatred that has lasted for centuries in the Chu Kingdom. Even King Zhao felt ashamed, but the king did not feel ashamed.
The alliance alliance is for the Chu State, not for the Zhao State.
My master is right in front of me, why are you scolding me like this?
After hearing Mao Sui's words, the King of Chu immediately changed his attitude and said: Yes, yes, it is indeed as the gentleman said. I will do my best to fulfill the alliance covenant.
Mao Sui pressed further and asked: Is the alliance agreement confirmed?
King Chu replied: "It's confirmed."
So Mao Sui said to the king of Chu's ministers in a commanding tone: "Bring the blood of chickens, dogs, and horses."
Mao Sui knelt down with the copper plate in his hands, presented it to the King of Chu and said: Your Majesty, you should suck the blood first to show your sincerity in confirming the alliance. The next one is my master, and the next one is me.
In this way, the alliance alliance was confirmed in the palace of Chu State.
At this time, Mao Sui held up a plate of blood with his left hand and called to the nineteen people with his right hand: "Everyone in the audience will also suck the blood from the plate. Although you are mediocre, you have completed your task. This is what is called relying on the strength of others to complete your task."


Chunk 2: 
original: 
平原君已定从而归，归至於赵，曰： 胜不敢复相士。
胜相士多者千人，寡者百数，自以为不失天下之士，今乃於毛先生而失之也。
毛先生一至楚，而使赵重於九鼎大吕。
毛先生以三寸之舌，强于百万之师。
胜不敢复相士。
遂以为上客。
平原君既返赵，楚使春申君将兵赴救赵，魏信陵君亦矫夺晋鄙军往救赵，皆未至。
秦急围邯郸，邯郸急，且降，平原君甚患之。
邯郸传舍吏子李同说平原君曰： 君不忧赵亡邪？
平原君曰： 赵亡则胜为虏，何为不忧乎？
李同曰： 邯郸之民，炊骨易子而食，可谓急矣，而君之後宫以百数，婢妾被绮縠，馀粱肉，而民褐衣不完，糟糠不厌。
民困兵尽，或剡木为矛矢，而君器物锺磬自若。
使秦破赵，君安得有此？
使赵得全，君何患无有？
今君诚能令夫人以下编於士卒之间，分功而作，家之所有尽散以飨士，士方其危苦之时，易德耳。
於是平原君从之，得敢死之士三千人。
李同遂与三千人赴秦军，秦军为之卻三十里。
亦会楚、魏救至，秦兵遂罢，邯郸复存。
李同战死，封其父为李侯。
虞卿欲以信陵君之存邯郸为平原君请封。
公孙龙闻之，夜驾见平原君曰： 龙闻虞卿欲以信陵君之存邯郸为君请封，有之乎？
平原君曰： 然。
龙曰： 此甚不可。
且王举君而相赵者，非以君之智能为赵国无有也。
割东武城而封君者，非以君为有功也，而以国人无勋，乃以君为亲戚故也。
translation: 
Lord Pingyuan confirmed the alliance and returned to Zhao State. After returning to Zhao State, he said: I don't dare to observe and identify talents anymore.
When I observe and identify talents, I say thousands at most and hundreds at least. I thought I would not miss out on all the talented people in the world, but now I have missed Mr. Mao.
Mr. Mao's first visit to the Chu State made the status of the Zhao State more noble than the national treasure of Jiuding Dalu.
Mr. Mao, with his eloquent mouth, was actually more powerful than an army of millions.
I no longer dare to observe and identify talents.
So he treated Mao Sui as a distinguished guest.
After Lord Pingyuan returned to the State of Zhao, the State of Chu sent Lord Chunshen to lead troops to rescue Zhao State. Lord Xinling of Wei State also pretended to ask for his orders and seized the military power of Jin Bi to lead troops to rescue State of Zhao, but none of them arrived yet.
At this time, Qin State quickly besieged Handan. Handan was in a hurry and was about to surrender. Lord Pingyuan was extremely anxious.
Li Tong, the son of an official at the Handan Hotel, persuaded Lord Pingyuan: "Aren't you worried about the demise of Zhao?"
Lord Pingyuan said: If Zhao is destroyed, then I will be a prisoner. Why not worry?
Li Tong said: "The people of Handan are using human bones as firewood and exchanging children for food. It can be said that they are in extreme danger. However, you have hundreds of concubines and maids in your harem. The maids wear silk embroidered clothes and cannot eat the fine food. However, the people are unable to cover themselves with coarse shorts and cannot eat enough wine dregs and grain husks."
The people are tired and their weapons are exhausted. Some people sharpen wood to use as spears and arrows, but your precious playthings, copper bells and jade, are still intact.
If the Qin army breaks Zhao, how can you have these things?
If the State of Zhao can be preserved, why would you worry about not having these things?
Now you can really order all the members below the wife to be organized into the soldiers, and they will be responsible for the labor of guarding the city, and distribute all the things in the house for the soldiers to enjoy. When the soldiers are in crisis and hardship, it is easy to be grateful.
So Pingyuan Jun adopted Li Tong's advice and got 3,000 soldiers who dared to risk their lives.
Li Tong joined a team of 3,000 people and rushed to the Qin army for a decisive battle. As a result, the Qin army was pushed back thirty miles.
At this time, it happened that reinforcements from Chu and Wei arrived, and the Qin army withdrew, and Handan was preserved.
Li Tong was killed in battle with the Qin army, and his father was granted the title of Marquis Li.
Yu Qing wanted to request additional fiefdoms for Lord Pingyuan on the grounds that Lord Xinling sent troops to save Zhao and saved Handan.
When Gongsun Long heard the news, he drove overnight to see Lord Pingyuan and said: I heard that Yu Qing wanted to ask for additional fiefs on your behalf on the grounds that Lord Xinling sent troops to save Zhao and saved Handan. Is this true?
Mr. Pingyuan replied: Yes.
Gongsun Long said: This is very inappropriate.
It is said that the monarch appointed you as the prime minister of Zhao State, not because your intelligence and talent are unique to Zhao State and no one else has them.
The title of Dongwu City is granted to you not because of your meritorious deeds, but because you are a close relative of the monarch.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
君受相印不辞无能，割地不言无功者，亦自以为亲戚故也。
今信陵君存邯郸而请封，是亲戚受城而国人计功也。
此甚不可。
且虞卿操其两权，事成，操右券以责；事不成，以虚名德君。
君必勿听也。
平原君遂不听虞卿。
平原君以赵孝成王十五年卒。
子孙代，後竟与赵俱亡。
平原君厚待公孙龙。
公孙龙善为坚白之辩，及邹衍过赵言至道，乃绌公孙龙。
虞卿者，游说之士也。蹑蹻檐簦说赵孝成王。
一见，赐黄金百镒，白璧一双；再见，为赵上卿，故号为虞卿。
秦赵战於长平，赵不胜，亡一都尉。
赵王召楼昌与虞卿曰： 军战不胜，尉复死，寡人使束甲而趋之，何如？
楼昌曰： 无益也，不如发重使为媾。
虞卿曰： 昌言媾者，以为不媾军必破也。
而制媾者在秦。
且王之论秦也，欲破赵之军乎，不邪？
王曰： 秦不遗馀力矣，必且欲破赵军。
虞卿曰： 王听臣，发使出重宝以附楚、魏，楚、魏欲得王之重宝，必内吾使。
赵使入楚、魏，秦必疑天下之合从，且必恐。
如此，则媾乃可为也。
赵王不听，与平阳君为媾，发郑硃入秦。
秦内之。
赵王召虞卿曰： 寡人使平阳君为媾於秦，秦已内郑硃矣，卿之为奚如？
虞卿对曰： 王不得媾，军必破矣。
天下贺战者皆在秦矣。
郑硃，贵人也，入秦，秦王与应侯必显重以示天下。
translation: 
You didn't refuse to accept the seal because you were incompetent, and you didn't refuse to accept the title because you had no merit. It was also because you considered yourself a close relative of the monarch.
Now Lord Xinling has sent troops to save Handan and you ask for an increase in the number of fiefs. This is because you accepted the fiefs as close relatives when you had no merit, but when you did meritorious service, you asked for rewards based on ordinary people's merits.
This is obviously very inappropriate.
Moreover, Yu Qing holds the initiative on both sides of success and failure. If the thing succeeds, he will ask for compensation like a deed to collect debt; if the thing does not succeed, he will use the false name of claiming credit for you to make you grateful to him.
You must not listen to his advice.
Lord Pingyuan then rejected Yu Qing's suggestion.
Lord Pingyuan died in the fifteenth year of King Zhao Xiaocheng's reign.
Lord Pingyuan's descendants inherited his title from generation to generation, and his descendants were finally cut off when the Zhao Kingdom was destroyed.
Lord Pingyuan treated Gongsun Long very kindly.
Gongsun Long was good at debating the "Li Jian Bai" proposition. When Zou Yan visited Zhao State, he discussed the most upright principles and refuted Gongsun Long's famous debate proposition. After that, Lord Pingyuan dismissed Gongsun Long.
Yu Qing was a talented person who was good at lobbying. He wore straw sandals and an umbrella on his shoulders and came all the way to lobby King Zhao Xiaocheng.
When he visited King Zhao for the first time, King Zhao gave him a hundred yi of gold and a pair of white jade. When he visited King Zhao for the second time, he became the minister of Zhao, so he was called Yu Qing.
Qin and Zhao fought in Changping. Zhao was unfavorable in the first battle and lost one captain.
King Zhao summoned Lou Chang and Yu Qing to discuss the situation and said: "Our army did not go well in the first battle and the captain died in battle. I will roll up my armor and go to the enemy to fight the Qin army. What do you think?"
Lou Chang said: If there is no benefit, it is better to send important envoys to seek peace.
Yu Qing said: The reason why Lou Chang advocated for peace was that he believed that if he did not seek peace, our army would be defeated.
But the initiative to control the peace talks lies with Qin.
Moreover, Your Majesty, please estimate Qin's war intention. Is it to defeat Zhao's army, or not?
King Zhao replied: Qin has tried its best without reservation and will definitely defeat Zhao Jun.
Yu Qing went on to say: Your Majesty listened to my words and sent envoys to bring valuable treasures to unite Chu and Wei. If Chu and Wei want to get your Majesty's valuable treasures, they will definitely accept our envoys.
When envoys from the State of Zhao enter Chu and Wei, the State of Qin will definitely suspect that all the princes in the world are united to fight against Qin, and will definitely panic.
In this way, peace talks can proceed.
King Zhao did not listen to Yu Qing's advice and negotiated peace with Pingyang Lord Zhao Bao, so he sent Zheng Zhuxian to Qin to contact Qin.
Qin accepted Zheng Zhu.
King Zhao summoned Yu Qing again and said: I sent Lord Pingyang to Qin to seek peace. Qin has accepted Zheng and Zhu. What do you think?
Yu Qing replied: If the king's peace talks cannot succeed, Zhao Jun will definitely be defeated.
The envoys from all the princes in the world to congratulate Qin on its victory are all in Qin.
Zheng Zhu is a noble person. When he enters Qin, the king of Qin and the princes of Ying will definitely publicize Zheng Zhu's arrival in Qin and show it to all the princes in the world.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
楚、魏以赵为媾，必不救王。
秦知天下不救王，则媾不可得成也。
应侯果显郑硃以示天下贺战胜者，终不肯媾。
长平大败，遂围邯郸，为天下笑。
秦既解邯郸围，而赵王入朝，使赵郝约事於秦，割六县而媾。
虞卿谓赵王曰： 秦之攻王也，倦而归乎？
王以其力尚能进，爱王而弗攻乎？
王曰： 秦之攻我也，不遗馀力矣，必以倦而归也。
虞卿曰： 秦以其力攻其所不能取，倦而归，王又以其力之所不能取以送之，是助秦自攻也。
来年秦复攻王，王无救矣。
王以虞卿之言赵郝。
赵郝曰： 虞卿诚能尽秦力之所至乎？
诚知秦力之所不能进，此弹丸之地弗予，令秦来年复攻王，王得无割其内而媾乎？
王曰： 请听子割，子能必使来年秦之不复攻我乎？
赵郝对曰： 此非臣之所敢任也。
他日三晋之交於秦，相善也。
今秦善韩、魏而攻王，王之所以事秦必不如韩、魏也。
今臣为足下解负亲之攻，开关通币，齐交韩、魏，至来年而王独取攻於秦，此王之所以事秦必在韩、魏之後也。
此非臣之所敢任也。
王以告虞卿。
虞卿对曰： 郝言 不媾，来年秦复攻王，王得无割其内而媾乎 。
今媾，郝又以不能必秦之不复攻也。
今虽割六城，何益！
来年复攻，又割其力之所不能取而媾，此自尽之术也，不如无媾。
秦虽善攻，不能取六县；赵虽不能守，终不失六城。
秦倦而归，兵必罢。
我以六城收天下以攻罢秦，是我失之於天下而取偿於秦也。
吾国尚利，孰与坐而割地，自弱以彊秦哉？
今郝曰 秦善韩、魏而攻赵者，必王之事秦不如韩、魏也 ，是使王岁以六城事秦也，即坐而城尽。
来年秦复求割地，王将与之乎？
弗与，是弃前功而挑秦祸也；与之，则无地而给之。
语曰 彊者善攻，弱者不能守 。
今坐而听秦，秦兵不弊而多得地，是彊秦而弱赵也。
以益彊之秦而割愈弱之赵，其计故不止矣。
且王之地有尽而秦之求无已，以有尽之地而给无已之求，其势必无赵矣。
赵王计未定，楼缓从秦来，赵王与楼缓计之，曰： 予秦地如毋予，孰吉？
translation: 
Chu and Wei believed that if Zhao went to Qin to seek peace, they would definitely not rescue the king.
The State of Qin knows that if the princes of the world do not rescue the king, then the peace talks will not be successful.
As expected, Marquis Ying publicized the fact that Zheng Zhu came to Qin and showed it to the envoys from all over the world who congratulated Qin for his victory, but he refused to negotiate peace after all.
The Zhao army was defeated in Changping, so Handan was besieged and was ridiculed by the world.
After the Qin State lifted the siege of Handan, King Zhao was planning to visit the King of Qin, so he sent Zhao Hao to the State of Qin to make a treaty and make peace with six counties.
Yu Qing said to King Zhao: "Look, Your Majesty, did Qin attack your Majesty and then withdraw because it was exhausted?"
Or is it able to attack, but stops attacking out of pity for the king?
King Zhao replied: Qin attacked me without any reservation and tried his best. He must have withdrawn because he was tired from the attack.
Yu Qing said: Qin used all its strength to attack the land it could not seize, but returned exhausted. However, the king gave Qin the land it could not seize for free. This was tantamount to helping Qin attack itself.
If Qin attacks the king again next year, the king will be unable to save himself.
King Zhao told Zhao Hao what Yu Qing said.
Zhao Hao said: Can Yu Qing really know the details of Qin's military strength?
If you really know that Qin's troops cannot attack this year, if you don't give it such a small piece of land, and let Qin attack the king again next year, won't the king want to cede the hinterland to it to sue for peace?
King Zhao said: I followed your advice and ceded six counties. Can you ensure that Qin will not attack me next year?
Zhao Hao replied: This is not something I dare to take on.
In the past, Han, Zhao and Wei had contacts with Qin and were friendly to each other.
Now that Qin is friendly to Han and Wei and attacks the king, it seems that the king's intention to serve Qin must be less than that of Han and Wei.
Now I will relieve you of the attack caused by betraying the good relationship with Qin, open the checkpoints, exchange trade, and have the same level of friendship with Qin as Korea and Wei. If next year the king alone invites Qin's attack, it must be that the king's intention to serve Qin has fallen behind Korea and Wei.
So, this is not something I dare to take on.
King Zhao told Yu Qing what Zhao Hao said.
Yu Qing replied: Zhao Hao said that if Qin doesn't make peace, next year Qin will attack the king again. Wouldn't the king want to cede his hinterland to it to seek peace?
Now that they are making peace, Zhao Hao believes that there is no guarantee that Qin will not attack again.
So what is the benefit of ceding six cities now?
Attack again next year, and cede to it the land that its troops cannot seize to sue for peace. This is a recipe for self-destruction, so it is better not to make peace.
Even if Qin is good at attacking, it cannot easily capture six counties; even if Zhao cannot defend, it will not lose six cities in the end.
If Qin is tired and withdraws its troops, the army will inevitably be weak.
I used six cities to gather the princes of the world to attack the weak Qin army. This is why I lost six cities to the princes of the world and gained compensation from Qin.
Our country can still benefit, which is better than ceding land for nothing, weakening itself and making Qin strong?
Now Zhao Hao said that the reason why Qin was on friendly terms with Han and Wei and attacked Zhao was that the king was not as willing to serve Qin as Han and Wei. This was to ask the king to devote six cities to serve Qin every year, which meant giving away all the cities in vain.
Next year Qin will ask for land again, will your Majesty give it to it?
If you don't give it, you will abandon the gains obtained by ceding the land and provoke Qin's attack; if you give it, there will be no land to give.
As the saying goes: The strong are good at attacking, the weak cannot defend.
Now they are simply at the mercy of Qin, and Qin's army can gain more land without any effort. This will make Qin stronger and Zhao weaker.
Let the increasingly powerful Qin State seize the increasingly weak Zhao State, and Qin's plan to seize Zhao's land every year will not stop.
Moreover, the king's land is limited but Qin's demands are unlimited. If the limited land of Zhao is used to meet the unlimited demands of Qin, then there will inevitably be no more Zhao.
Before King Zhao's idea was settled, Lou Huan returned to Zhao from Qin. King Zhao discussed this issue with Lou Huan and said: Which approach is better, giving land to Qin or not?


Chunk 5: 
original: 
缓辞让曰： 此非臣之所能知也。
王曰： 虽然，试言公之私。
楼缓对曰： 王亦闻夫公甫文伯母乎？
公甫文伯仕於鲁，病死，女子为自杀於房中者二人。
其母闻之，弗哭也。
其相室曰： 焉有子死而弗哭者乎？
其母曰： 孔子，贤人也，逐於鲁，而是人不随也。
今死而妇人为之自杀者二人，若是者必其於长者薄而於妇人厚也。
故从母言之，是为贤母；从妻言之，是必不免为妒妻。
故其言一也，言者异则人心变矣。
今臣新从秦来而言勿予，则非计也；言予之，恐王以臣为为秦也：故不敢对。
使臣得为大王计，不如予之。
王曰： 诺。
虞卿闻之，入见王曰： 此饰说也，王蜰勿予！
楼缓闻之，往见王。
王又以虞卿之言告楼缓。
楼缓对曰： 不然。虞卿得其一，不得其二。
今赵兵困於秦，天下之贺战胜者则必尽在於秦矣。
故不如亟割地为和，以疑天下而慰秦之心。
不然，天下将因秦之怒，乘赵之弊，瓜分之。
赵且亡，何秦之图乎？
故曰虞卿得其一，不得其二。
原王以此决之，勿复计也。
虞卿闻之，往见王曰： 危哉楼子之所以为秦者，是愈疑天下，而何慰秦之心哉？
独不言其示天下弱乎？
且臣言勿予者，非固勿予而已也。
秦索六城於王，而王以六城赂齐。
齐，秦之深雠也，得王之六城，并力西击秦，齐之听王，不待辞之毕也。
则是王失之於齐而取偿於秦也。
而齐、赵之深雠可以报矣，而示天下有能为也。
translation: 
Lou slowly declined and said: This is not something I can know.
King Zhao said: Even so, you might as well try to express your personal opinions.
Lou Huan then replied: "Has your Majesty also heard about Gongfu Wenbo's mother?"
Gongfu Wenbo, who was an official in the state of Lu, died of illness. Two of his wives and concubines committed suicide in their bedroom for him.
His mother didn't even cry when she heard this.
The nanny of Gongfu Wenbo's family said: Where is the mother who doesn't cry when her son dies?
His mother said: Confucius was a great sage who was expelled by the State of Lu, but he no longer followed Confucius.
Now that he is dead, two of his wives and concubines have committed suicide for him. In such a situation, it must be that he has a weak affection for his elders but a deep affection for his wives and concubines.
So if a mother says something like this, she is a virtuous mother; if a wife says something like this, she must be a jealous wife.
Therefore, although the words are the same, the meaning of the words changes due to the different standpoints of the speakers.
Now I have just come from Qin. If I say not to give it, it is not the best policy. If I say to give it, I am afraid that the king will think that I am helping Qin. So I dare not answer.
If I can think about it for your Majesty, I might as well give it to you.
After hearing this, King Zhao said: Yes.
When Yu Qing heard about this, he went to the palace to see King Zhao and said, "This is a hypocritical argument. Your Majesty must not give Qin six counties!"
Lou Huan heard about it and went to see King Zhao.
King Zhao told Lou Huan what Yu Qing said.
Lou Huan said: No, Yu Qing knows one thing but not the other.
The enmity between Qin and Zhao caused war disasters, but all the princes in the world were very happy. Why is this? Said that we will use the strong country to bully the weak country. Now that Zhao's army is besieged by Qin, all the princes in the world congratulating them on their victory must be in Qin.
Therefore, it is better to cede the land quickly and make peace, so as to make the princes of the world doubt that Qin and Zhao are already on good terms and to appease Qin.
Otherwise, the princes of the world will take advantage of Qin's anger and Zhao's fatigue to carve up Zhao.
The State of Zhao is about to perish, so what plans does it have for the State of Qin?
Therefore, Yu Qing knows one thing but not the other.
I hope your Majesty will consider these aspects and decide to give it to you, and stop thinking about it.
After Yu Qing heard this discussion, he went to see King Zhao and said: "We are in danger. Lou Huan is here to help Qin. This only makes the princes of the world more suspicious of us. How can we appease Qin?"
Why didn't he say that doing so would show the princes of the world that Zhao was weak and could be bullied?
Besides, what I advocate about not giving land to Qin does not mean that we should just refuse to give it to Qin.
Qin asked the king for six cities, and the king gave these six cities to Qi.
The State of Qi is the mortal enemy of the State of Qin. If we get the king's six cities, we can join forces with us to attack the State of Qin. The King of Qi listens to the king's plan and agrees without waiting for the words to be finished.
This means that although the king lost six cities in Qi, he was compensated by Qin.
By doing this, the deep hatred between Qi and Zhao can be avenged, and it can also show to the princes in the world that King Zhao is capable.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
王以此发声，兵未窥於境，臣见秦之重赂至赵而反媾於王也。
从秦为媾，韩、魏闻之，必尽重王；重王，必出重宝以先於王。
则是王一举而结三国之亲，而与秦易道也。 赵王曰： 善。
则使虞卿东见齐王，与之谋秦。
虞卿未返，秦使者已在赵矣。
楼缓闻之，亡去。
赵於是封虞卿以一城。
居顷之，而魏请为从。
赵孝成王召虞卿谋。过平原君，平原君曰： 原卿之论从也。
虞卿入见王。
王曰： 魏请为从。
对曰： 魏过。
王曰： 寡人固未之许。
对曰： 王过。
王曰： 魏请从，卿曰魏过，寡人未之许，又曰寡人过，然则从终不可乎？
对曰： 臣闻小国之与大国从事也，有利则大国受其福，有败则小国受其祸。
今魏以小国请其祸，而王以大国辞其福，臣故曰王过，魏亦过。
窃以为从便。 王曰： 善。
乃合魏为从。
虞卿既以魏齐之故，不重万户侯卿相之印，与魏齐间行，卒去赵，困於梁。
魏齐已死，不得意，乃著书，上采春秋，下观近世，曰节义、称号、揣摩、政谋，凡八篇。
以刺讥国家得失，世传之曰虞氏春秋。
太史公曰：平原君，翩翩浊世之佳公子也，然未睹大体。
鄙语曰 利令智昏 ，平原君贪冯亭邪说，使赵陷长平兵四十馀万众，邯郸几亡。
虞卿料事揣情，为赵画策，何其工也！
及不忍魏齐，卒困於大梁，庸夫且知其不可，况贤人乎？
然虞卿非穷愁，亦不能著书以自见於後世云。
translation: 
Your Majesty, spread the word about the alliance between Qi and Zhao. Our troops will not have to go to the border to conduct reconnaissance. I will see Qin's valuable gifts sent to Zhao and in turn sue for peace from your Majesty.
Once peace is made with the King of Qin, when Han and Wei hear the news, they will try their best to respect the King. Since they want to respect the King, they must take out precious treasures and rush to pay tribute to the King.
In this way, the king's move can establish friendship with the three countries of Han, Wei, and Qi, and thus change the status of dealing with Qin. After hearing this, King Zhao said: Great.
So he sent Yu Qing east to visit the King of Qi and discuss with him the issue of attacking Qin.
Before Yu Qing returned to Qi, Qin's envoys were already in Zhao.
When Lou Huan learned the news, he immediately ran away.
King Zhao then granted a city to Yu Qing. Soon after, Wei State requested a treaty with Zhao State.
King Zhao Xiaocheng summoned Yu Qing to discuss the matter.
Yu Qing first went to visit Lord Pingyuan. Lord Pingyuan said: I hope to hear you discuss the way of combining vertical and horizontal lines.
Yu Qing entered the palace to meet King Zhao.
King Zhao said: The state of Wei requested an alliance.
Yu Qing said: Wei Guo was wrong.
King Zhao said: I didn't agree to it at first.
Yu Qing said: Your Majesty is wrong.
King Zhao said: Wei Guo asked for alliance, but you said Wei Guo was wrong; I did not agree to it, and you said I was wrong again. In this case, is it impossible to form a vertical alliance after all?
Yu Qing replied: I heard that small countries work together with big countries. If there are benefits, the big countries will enjoy the fruits, and if there are disadvantages, the small countries will bear the disasters.
The current situation is that Wei is willing to bear the disaster as a small country, but you refuse to enjoy the fruits as a big country. So I say that the king is wrong, and the state of Wei is also wrong.
I personally think that a vertical alliance is beneficial. King Zhao said: OK.
So he made an alliance with Wei State.
Because of Wei Qi, the Prime Minister of Wei State, Yu Qing preferred to abandon the title of Marquis of Wanhu and the Prime Minister's seal, and fled from a small road with Wei Qi. Finally, he left Zhao State and was trapped in Daliang of Wei State.
After Wei Qi's death, Yu Qing became even more dissatisfied. He wrote a book, collected historical facts from "Spring and Autumn", observed the modern world situation, and wrote a total of eight articles: "Jieyi", "Title", "Speculation" and "Political Strategy".
It is used to criticize the success and failure of national politics. It has been circulated in the world and is called "Yu's Spring and Autumn Annals".
Tai Shigong said: Mr. Pingyuan is a handsome and talented son in troubled times, but he cannot understand the overall situation.
As the saying goes: greed for personal gain will lead to loss of reason. Lord Pingyuan believed in Feng Ting's heresy and coveted the Shangdang he gave, which led to the Zhao State's defeat in Changping, more than 400,000 Zhao soldiers were killed, and the Zhao State was almost destroyed.
Yu Qing analyzed the affairs, speculated on the situation, and made suggestions for the State of Zhao. How thoughtful and ingenious he was!
In the end, I couldn't bear to watch Wei Qi being hunted down, and finally found himself in trouble in Daliang. Ordinary people knew they couldn't do this, let alone talented people.
But if Yu Qing had not been poor and sad, he would not have been able to write books and make his reputation known to the world and pass on to future generations.


