Chunk 0: 
original: 
安思阎皇后讳姬，河南荥阳人也。
祖父章，永平中为尚书，以二妹为贵人。
章精力晓旧典，久次，当迁以重职，显宗为后宫亲属，竟不用，出为步兵校尉。
章生畅，畅生后。
后有才色。
元初元年，以选入掖庭，甚见宠爱，为贵人。
二年，立为皇后。
后专房妒忌，帝幸宫人李氏，生皇子保，遂鸩杀李氏。
三年，以后父侍中畅为长水校尉，封北宜春侯，食邑五千户。
四年，畅卒，谥曰文侯，子显嗣。
建光元年，邓太后崩，帝始亲政事。
显及弟景、耀、晏并为卿校，典禁兵。
延光元年，更封显长社候，食邑万三千五百户，追尊后母宗为荥阳君。
显、景诸子年皆童龀，并为黄门侍郎。
后宠既盛，而兄弟颇与朝权，后遂与大长秋江京、中常侍樊丰等共谮皇太子保，废为济阴王。
四年春，后从帝幸章陵，帝道疾，崩于叶县。
后、显兄弟及江京、樊丰等谋曰： 今晏驾道次，济阴王在内，邂逅公卿立之，还为大害。 乃伪云帝疾甚，徙御卧车。
行四日，驱驰还宫。
明日，诈遣司徒刘熹诣郊庙社稷，告天请命。
其夕，乃发丧。
尊后曰皇太后。皇太后临朝，以显为车骑将军仪同三司。
太后欲久专国政，贪立幼年，与显等定策禁中，迎济北惠王子北乡侯懿，立为皇帝。
显忌大将军耿宝位尊权重，威行前朝，乃风有司奏宝及其党与中常侍樊丰、虎贲中郎将谢惲、惲弟侍中笃、笃弟大将军长史宓、侍中周广、阿母野王君王圣、圣女永、永婿黄门侍郎樊严等，更相阿党，互作威福，探刺禁省，更为唱和，皆大不道。
丰、惲、广皆下狱死，家属徙比景；宓、严减死，髡钳；贬宝为则亭侯，遣就国，自杀；王圣母子徙雁门。
于是景为卫尉，耀城门校尉，晏执金吾，兄弟权要，威福自由。
少帝立二百余日而疾笃，显兄弟及江京等皆在左右。
京引显屏语曰： 北乡侯病不解，国嗣宜时有定。
前不用济阴王，今若立之，后必当怨，又何不早征诸王子，简所置乎？ 显以为然。
及少帝薨，京白太后，征济北、河间王子。
未至，而中黄门孙程合谋杀江京等，立济阴王，是为顺帝。
显、景、晏及党与皆伏诛，迁太后于离宫，家属徙比景。
明年，太后崩。在位十二年，合葬恭陵。
帝母李氏瘗在洛阳城北，帝初不知，莫敢以闻。
及太后崩，左右白之，帝感悟发哀，亲至瘗所，更以礼殡，上尊谥曰恭愍皇后，葬恭北陵，为策书金匮，藏于世祖庙。
translation: 
An Si Yan Queen Yan Ji was born in Xingyang, Henan.
Grandfather Yan Zhang was the minister in Yongpingzhong, and his second sister was a nobleman.
Yan Zhang was proficient in the old canons and had not been promoted to an important position for a long time. He should have been promoted to an important position. However, Emperor Xianzong and Ming Emperor considered him a relative of the harem, so he did not use it and became an infantry captain.
Yan Zhang gave birth to Yan Chang, and Yan Chang gave birth to Queen Yan Ji.
Yan Ji has talent and beautiful appearance.
In the first year of the Yuan Dynasty of Emperor An, he was selected to join Ye Ting, where he was favored and considered a noble person.
In the second year of Yuan Dynasty, she was established as queen.
Queen Yan wanted to monopolize Emperor An's special favor and was deeply jealous. Emperor An favored the Li family in the palace and gave birth to the prince Liu Bao, so Queen Yan poisoned Li family.
In the third year of the Yuan Dynasty, he appointed Yan Chang, Queen Yan's father, as the Shizhong of Changshui. He was granted the title of Marquis of Northern Yichun and had a settlement of 5,000 households.
In the fourth year of the Yuan Dynasty, Yan Chang died. His posthumous title was Wenhou, and he was succeeded by his son Yan Xian.
In the first year of Emperor An's reign, Empress Dowager Deng passed away, and Emperor An began to take charge of political affairs.
Yan Xian and his younger brothers Yan Jing, Yan Yao and Yan Yan were all in charge of the Imperial Guards.
In the first year of Emperor An's reign of Yanguang, Yan Xian was granted the title of Marquis of Changshe, with a settlement of 13,500 households, and the title of Queen Yan's mother was the Lord of Xingyang.
The sons of Yan Xian and Yan Jing were only eight years old, and they were appointed as ministers of Huangmen.
Queen Yan was particularly favored by Emperor An, and her brothers also participated in the government. However, Queen Yan still worked with Dachangqiu Jiang Jing, Zhongchang Shi Fan Feng and others to slander the crown prince Liu Bao and deposed him as King Jiyin.
In the spring of the fourth year of Emperor An's reign, Queen Yan followed Emperor An to Zhangling. Emperor An fell ill on the way and died in Ye County.
Queen Yan, brothers Yan Xian, Jiang Jing, Fan Feng and others planned and said: Now that the emperor has died on the journey, King Jiyin is in the capital, and the ministers meet unexpectedly and make him emperor. Wouldn't it be a big disaster?
So he lied that Emperor An was seriously ill and carried him to the sleeping car. After walking for four days, the carriages and horses were hauled back to Beijing in a hurry.
The next day, he sent Situ Liu Xi to the suburban temple Sheji to appeal to heaven for orders.
This evening, there was a funeral for Emperor An.
The empress dowager Yan was respected as the empress dowager. When the empress dowager came to the court, Yan Xian was appointed as the chariot and cavalry general. The ritual system was the same as that of the three princes.
The Empress Dowager Yan wanted to exclusively take charge of the country's affairs for a long time, so she was greedy for the throne at a young age. She made a plan with Yan Xian and others to ban her. She welcomed Liu Yi, the Marquis of Beixiang, Prince Hui of Jibei, and was established as emperor.
Yan Xian and others were afraid that General Geng Bao would be respected in his position and be powerful in the An Dynasty, so he quietly signaled the officials to join Geng Bao and his party, Chang Shi Fan Feng, Huben Zhonglang General Xie Yun, Yun's brother Shi Zhong Xie Du, and General Dudi General Shi. Xie Mi, the minister Zhou Guang, the emperor's wet nurse Yewang Wang Sheng, Wang Shengnu Yong, Yong's son-in-law Huangmen's minister Fan Yan, etc., have personal favors with each other, form cliques for personal gain, dominate each other, spy on forbidden secrets, echo and sing, and are treasonous.
Fan Feng, Xie Yun, and Zhou Guang were all imprisoned and died, and their families were exiled to Bijing; Xie Mi and Fan Yan were punished with the penalty of having their hair shaved off and having their necks tied with iron rings; Geng Bao was demoted to the rank of Zetinghou, and was sent to the country to be enfeoffed, forcing Geng Bao to commit suicide; Wang Shengsheng and his son were exiled to Yanmen.
So Yan Jing was appointed as the guard, Yan Yao was appointed as the city gate captain, and Yan Yan was appointed as the commander Jinwu. The brothers were all in positions of authority, dominating and enjoying freedom.
More than two hundred days after Beixiang Hou Liu Yi became emperor, he became seriously ill. Yan Xian brothers, Jiang Jing and others were all around him.
Jiang Jing took Yan Xian to avoid people and said: "The Marquis of Beixiang's illness will not be cured, and who will succeed the throne should be decided as soon as possible."
He did not establish King Jiyin before, but if he is established as emperor now, he will definitely hold a grudge in the future. Why not quickly recruit many princes to select a suitable one who can inherit the throne?
After hearing this, Yan Xian felt that he was right. When the young emperor Beixiang Hou died, Jiang Jing told Queen Mother Yan to recruit the princes of Jibei and Hejian.
But before they could reach the capital, Sun Cheng and others from Zhonghuang Gate conspired to murder Jiang Jing and others, and established King Jiyin as Emperor Shun.
Yan Xian, Yan Jing, Yan Yan and their accomplices were executed. The Queen Mother Yan moved to the palace and her family members were exiled to Bijing.
The following year, Queen Mother Yan died. After reigning for 12 years, she was buried in Gongling Mausoleum with Emperor An.
Emperor Shun Liu Bao's mother, Li, was buried in the north of Luoyang City. Emperor Shun didn't know about it, and no one dared to tell him.
When Empress Dowager Yan passed away, people around her told him that Emperor Shun was awakened and felt sad, so he went to the burial site in person and held the funeral ceremony again. She was posthumously named Empress Gongmin and was buried in Gongbeiling. A golden cabinet for policy books was hidden in the Shizu Temple.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
顺烈梁皇后讳妠，大将军商之女，恭怀皇后弟之孙也。
后生，有光景之祥。
少善女工。好《史书》，九岁能诵《论语》，治《韩诗》，大义略举。
常以列女图画置于左右，以自监戒。
父商深异之，窃谓诸弟曰： 我先人全济河西，所活者不可胜数。
虽大位不究，而积德必报。
若庆流子孙者，倘兴此女乎？
永建三年，与姑俱选入掖庭，时年十三，相工茅通见后，惊，再拜贺曰： 此所谓日角偃月，相之极贵，臣所未尝见也。 太史卜兆得寿房，又筮得《坤》之《比》，遂以为贵人。
常特被引御，从容辞于帝曰： 夫阳以博施为德，阴以不专为义，螽斯则百，福之所由兴也。
愿陛下思云雨之均泽，识贯鱼之次序，使小妾得免罪谤之累。 由是帝加敬焉。
阳嘉元年春，有司奏立长秋宫，以乘氏侯商先帝外戚，《春秋》之义，娶先大国，梁小贵人宜配天祚，正位坤极。
帝从之，乃于寿安殿立贵人为皇后。
后既少聪惠，深览前世得失，虽以德进，不敢有骄专之心，每日月见谪，辄降服求愆。
建康元年，帝崩。
后无子，美人虞氏子炳立，是为冲帝。
尊后为皇太后，太后临朝。
冲帝寻崩，复立质帝，犹秉朝政。
translation: 
Empress Shunlie Liang was the daughter of Liang Shang, the daughter of General Liang Shang, and the granddaughter of Empress Gonghuai's younger brother.
When Liang Nui was born, the sun and moon shone with auspicious signs.
Liang Nunai was good at working as a girl when she was young. She was good at reading "Historical Records". She could recite "The Analects" at the age of nine. She studied the "Book of Songs" passed down by Han Ying and could understand the great meanings in the book.
Pictures of women are often placed on the left and right for self-supervision and warning.
Her father Liang Shang was very surprised and secretly said to his brothers: Our ancestors helped Hexi with relief, and the number of surviving people was countless.
Although the emperor did not bother to commend him at the time, he would definitely receive good retribution if he accumulated evil deeds.
If Ji Qingze is passed down to future generations, this child might be made rich!
In the third year of Yongjian reign of Emperor Shun, Liang Nünei was elected to Yeting together with her aunt, at the age of thirteen. Mao Tong, the prime minister, was surprised when he saw Liang Nunei. He raised his hand to congratulate her and said, "This is called the sun horn and the moon: the center of the forehead is raised, shaped like the sun; the eyebrows are curved like a half moon. It is an extremely noble sign, and I have never seen it before." Taishi used tortoise shells to occupy the longevity room, and used yarrow to occupy the changes in the Kun hexagram. Compared with the nine-five, it occupied its position and showed auspiciousness.
So Emperor Shun regarded Liang Nvnai as a noble person and was often favored especially. Liang Guiren calmly declined and said: It is virtue for an emperor to give alms widely like the warm sunshine, and it is righteousness for a concubine to be like a katydid, not jealous, not doting and monopolizing. If you have many descendants, you will be happy.
I hope that the emperor will spread the blessings of clouds and rain evenly on all the concubines, so that the concubines can advance in order like fish, so that I, the concubine, will be free from the crime of slander. Therefore, Emperor Shun respected Liang Guiren even more.
In the spring of the first year of Emperor Shun's Yangjia year, the stewards set up the Changqiu Palace. Because the aunt of Liang Shang, Marquis of the Cheng family, was a noble of Emperor Zhang and gave birth to Emperor He. According to the meaning of "Spring and Autumn", she was married to a great country. It was suitable for Liang Xiao noble to be blessed by heaven and be established as the queen. She was in her inner position and was at the extreme of Yin De.
Emperor Shun accepted this memorial and appointed the noble Liang Nü Nei as the queen in Shou'an Palace.
Empress Liang was very smart when she was young, and she was deeply aware of the ups and downs of her previous life. Although she advanced to the position of virtue, she did not dare to have arrogant and domineering thoughts. Whenever there was an eclipse of the sun or the moon, she would take off her plain clothes to apologize and seek to relieve her fault.
In the first year of Jiankang, Emperor Shun died.
Empress Liang had no children, so Liu Bingli, the son of the beautiful Yu family, became Emperor Chong.
Respect Empress Liang as the Empress Dowager, and the Empress Dowager will come to the court.
Emperor Chong died less than a year later, Emperor Zhi was established, and the Empress Dowager Liang continued to govern.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
时，杨、徐剧贼寇扰州郡，西羌、鲜卑及日南蛮夷攻城暴掠，赋敛烦数，官民困竭。
太后夙夜勤劳，推心杖贤，委任太尉李固等，拔用忠良，务崇节俭。
其贪叨罪慝，多见诛废。
分兵讨伐，群寇消夷。
故海内肃然，宗庙以宁。
而兄大将军冀鸩杀质帝，专权暴滥，忌害忠良，数以邪说疑误太后，遂立桓帝而诛李固。
太后又溺于宦官，多所封宠，以此天下失望。
和平元年春，归政于帝，太后寝疾遂笃，乃御辇幸宣德殿，见宫省官属及诸梁兄弟。
诏曰： 朕素有心下结气，从间以来，加以浮肿，逆害饮食，浸以沉困，比使内外劳心请祷。
私自忖度，日夜虚劣，不能复与群公卿士共相终竟。
援立圣嗣，恨不久育养，见其终始。
今以皇帝、将军兄弟委付股肱，其各自勉焉。 后二日而崩。
在位十九年，年四十五。
合葬宪陵。
虞美人者，以良家子年十三选入掖庭，又生女舞阳长公主。
自汉兴，母氏莫不尊宠。
顺帝既未加美人爵号，而冲帝早夭，大将军梁冀秉政，忌恶他族，故虞氏抑而不登，但称 大家 而已。
陈夫人者，家本魏郡，少以声伎入孝王宫，得幸，生质帝。
亦以梁氏故，荣宠不及焉。
熹平四年，小黄门赵祐、议郎卑整上言： 《春秋》之义，母以子贵。
隆汉盛典，尊崇母氏，凡在外戚，莫不加宠。
今冲帝母虞大家，质帝母陈夫人，皆诞生圣皇，而未有称号。
translation: 
At this time, bandits from Yangzhou and Xu Feng from Jiujiang were invading the prefectures and counties. Barbarians from Xiqiang, Xianbei and Rinan attacked the city and looted the city. There were many types of land taxes and taxes. The officials and the people were in poverty.
The Empress Dowager Liang worked hard day and night, treated people with sincerity, trusted the wise men in their elder years, and appointed Lieutenant Li Gu to select loyal and virtuous people, and she must practice frugality.
The scum who are greedy for money and treacherous are often killed or dismissed.
There were bandits who gathered to make trouble and divided their troops to fight against them, but they were all eliminated and put down.
Therefore, the world is at peace, and the ancestral temple and the country are at peace.
However, the Empress Dowager Liang's brother, General Liang Ji, actually poisoned Emperor Zhi and killed Emperor Zhi. He was dictatorial and tyrannical, and hated Zhongliang.
The Empress Dowager Liang also doted on the eunuchs and granted them titles and titles. As a result, the world was disappointed and unpopular.
In the spring of the first year of Heping, the Empress Dowager Liang returned to power under Emperor Huan. Due to her serious illness, she took a chariot to the Xuande Hall and summoned the ministers, Zhongshu and other officials in the palace as well as the Liang brothers.
The edict was issued saying: I have an old ailment of qi in my heart, which has recently become swollen, and I don't like to eat. I am becoming more and more heavy and sleepy, which makes me both inside and outside pray for me.
After thinking about it, I feel that I am weak day and night, and I am afraid that I will no longer be able to meet the princes and ministers.
A wise emperor has been established to inherit the great rule. I only regret that I cannot educate him for a long time, so I can see his present and future.
Today, the emperor and the general brothers have entrusted the ministers to encourage each other. Two days later, Empress Dowager Liang died.
He reigned for nineteen years and died at the age of forty-five.
Buried in Xianling Mausoleum with Emperor Shun.
The poppy was selected into Yeting at the age of thirteen as a girl from a good family, and she gave birth to Emperor Chong and another daughter, Princess Wuyang.
Since the founding of the Han Dynasty, the mother family has always respected and favored her.
Emperor Shun did not add the title of Meiren, and Emperor Chong died young. The general Liang Ji took over as regent, and was afraid of other noble families. Therefore, the Yu family was suppressed and could not be promoted, but was called "everyone".
Mrs. Chen was born in Wei County. When she was young, she entered the Palace of Xiao Wang Liu Hong as a vocal performer. She was favored and became Emperor Zhi.
Also because of the Liang family, he could not get honor and favor.
In the fourth year of Xiping reign of Emperor Ling, Zhao You of Xiaohuangmen wrote a letter to Yilang Beizheng, saying: The meaning of "Spring and Autumn" is that mother is more valuable than son.
During the grand ceremony of the Long Han Dynasty, the mother's family was respected, and all relatives were given honors and favors.
Jin Chong Emperor's mother, Yu Jiajia, and Zhi Emperor's mother, Mrs. Chen, both gave birth to holy emperors, but did not have titles.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
夫臣子虽贱，尚有追赠之典，况二母见在，不蒙崇显之次，无以述尊先世，垂示后世也。 帝感其言，乃拜虞大家为宪陵贵人，陈夫人为渤海孝王妃，使中常侍持节授印绶，遣太常以三牲告宪陵、怀陵、静陵焉。
孝崇郾皇后讳明，为蠡吾侯翼媵妾，生桓帝。
桓帝即位，明年，追尊翼为孝崇皇，陵曰博陵，以后为博园贵人。
和平元年，梁太后崩，乃就博陵尊后为孝崇皇后。
遣司徒持节奉策授玺绶，赍乘舆器服，备法物。
宫曰永乐。
置太仆、少府以下，皆如长乐宫故事。
又置虎贲、羽林卫士，起宫室，分巨鹿九县为后汤沐邑。
在位三年，元嘉二年崩。
以帝弟平原王石为丧主，敛以东园画梓寿器、玉匣、饭含之具，礼仪制度比恭怀皇后。
使司徒持节，大长秋奉吊祠，赙钱四千万，布四万匹，中谒者仆射典护丧事，侍御史护大驾卤簿。
诏安平王豹、河间王建、勃海王悝，长社、益阳二长公主，与诸国侯三百里内者，及中二千石、二千石、令、长、相，皆会葬。
将作大匠复土，缮庙，合葬博陵。
桓帝懿献梁皇后讳女莹，顺烈皇后之女弟也。
帝初为蠡吾侯，梁太后征，欲与后为婚，未及嘉礼，会质帝崩，因以立帝。
明年，有司奏太后曰： 《春秋》迎王后于纪，在涂则称后。
今大将军冀女弟，膺绍圣善。
结婚之际，有命既集，宜备礼章，时进征币。
请下三公、太常案礼仪。 奏可。
于是悉依孝惠皇帝纳后故事，聘黄金二万斤，纳采雁、璧、乘马、束帛，一如旧典。
translation: 
Although the ministers are humble, they still have the grace to give posthumously. However, now the second mother does not enjoy the high and distinguished position, and does not follow the rules of the past generations to show the future generations. Impressed by his words, Emperor Ling conferred the titles of Nobles of the Xianling Mausoleum on the Yu family, and made Mrs. Chen the Xiao Princess of Bohai. He sent Taichang to serve as a talisman to confer the seal ribbon, and sent Taichang to offer sacrifices to Emperor Shun's Xianling Mausoleum, Chongdi Huailing Mausoleum, and Zhidi Emperor Jingling Mausoleum.
Empress Xiao Chonglu made it clear that she was the concubine of Liu Yi, Marquis of Liwu, who gave birth to Emperor Huan.
In the second year after Emperor Huan ascended the throne, he honored Liu Yi as Emperor Xiao Chong. His mausoleum was named Boling, and later he was named Expo Noble.
In the first year of Emperor Huan's reign, the Empress Dowager Liang passed away, so she was given the title of Empress Xiao Chong.
Send Situ to hold the talisman, present policy documents, seals and ribbons, and send chariots, utensils and clothing, as well as dharma objects.
The palace is called Yongle.
The appointment of imperial servants and officials below the Shaofu level all follow the old system of Changle Palace.
He also set up Huben and Yulin guards, built palaces, and divided the nine counties of Julu into Houtang Muyi.
After reigning for three years, Yuanjia died in the second year.
Liu Shi, Prince of Pingyuan, the younger brother of Emperor Huan, was the chief mourner, and he was buried with a painted catalpa in the East Garden, longevity utensils, a jade box, and food containers. The etiquette system was similar to that of Empress Gonghuai.
Situ was sent to hold the talisman festival, and condolences were held in Changqiu. The funeral cost 40 million and 40,000 bolts of cloth. The person who paid the homage, Pu She, was in charge of guarding the funeral, and the imperial censor was responsible for supervising the order.
The king of Anping, Liu Bao, the king of Hejian, Liu Jian, the king of Bohai, Liu Kui, the two eldest princesses of Changshe and Yiyang, as well as the princes of other countries within three hundred miles, as well as the two thousand stones, two thousand stones, the ministers, chief ministers, and ministers were ordered to come to the funeral.
He will be a master craftsman who restores the soil, repairs the temple, and is buried in Boling together with Liu Yi, Marquis of Liwu.
Emperor Huan Yi Xian Liang Empress Liang Nuying, the sister of Empress Shunlie.
When Emperor Huan first became Marquis of Liwu, Empress Dowager Liang conscripted her into the palace and wanted to marry her sister to Emperor Huan. Before there was time to hold the wedding, Emperor Zhi passed away and Emperor Huan ascended the throne.
The next year, the steward reported to the Queen Mother: "In the Spring and Autumn Annals, the duke was sacrificed to welcome the queen in Ji, and in Tu she was called the queen."
Today’s General Liang Ji’s sister is a virtuous and intelligent mother.
On the occasion of marriage, the Queen Mother has issued an order to allow the marriage, and the etiquette rules should be carefully prepared and the money should be paid on time to facilitate the marriage.
Please order Sangong and Taichang to perform the etiquette. The Queen Mother approved.
So everything followed Emperor Xiaohui's approach to accepting the queen, including a betrothal gift of 20,000 kilograms of gold, a wild goose bib riding a horse and a bundle of silk, all following the etiquette of the former Han Dynasty.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
建和元年六月始入掖庭，八月立为皇后。
时，太后秉政而梁冀专朝，故后独得宠幸，自下莫得进见。
后借姊兄荫势，恣极奢靡，宫幄雕丽，服御珍华，巧饰制度，兼倍前世。
及皇太后崩，恩爱稍衰。
后既无子，潜怀怨忌，每宫人孕育，鲜得全者。
帝虽迫畏梁冀，不敢谴怒，然见御转稀。
至延熹二年，后以忧恚崩，在位十三年，葬懿陵。
其岁，诛梁冀，废懿陵为贵人冢焉。
桓帝邓皇后讳猛女，和熹皇后从兄子邓香之女也。
母宣，初适香，生后。
改嫁梁纪，纪者，大将军梁冀妻孙寿之舅也。
后少孤，随母为居，因冒姓梁氏。
冀妻见后貌美，永兴中进入掖庭，为采女，绝幸。
明年，封兄邓演为南顿侯，位特进。
演卒，子康嗣。
及懿献后崩，梁冀诛，立后为皇后。
帝恶梁氏，改姓为薄，封后母宣为长安君。
四年，有司奏后本郎中邓香之女，不宜改易它姓，于是复为邓氏。
追封赠香车骑将军安阳侯印绶，更封宣、康大县，宣为昆阳君，康为沘阳侯，赏赐巨万计。
宣卒，赗赠葬礼，皆依后母旧仪。
以康弟统袭封昆阳侯，位侍中；统从兄会袭安阳侯，为虎贲中郎将；又封统弟秉为淯阳侯。
宗族皆列校、郎将。
帝多内幸，博采宫女至五六千人，及驱役从使，复兼倍于此。
而后恃尊骄忌，与帝所幸郭贵人更相谮诉。
八年，诏废后，送暴室，以忧死。
translation: 
In June of the first year of Jianhe, Liang Nuying entered Yeting and was established as queen in August.
At that time, the Empress Dowager Liang was in charge of the government, and Liang Ji was in power. Therefore, the Empress Dowager Liang was the only one favored, and no one from the concubines down could share the emperor's favor.
Relying on the shelter and influence of her elder sisters and brothers, Empress Liang indulged in extravagance. The palaces were decorated with colorful decorations, the curtains were gorgeous, the clothes were precious, and the utensils were luxurious, doubling the previous ones.
After the death of Empress Dowager Liang, Emperor Huan's love for her gradually declined.
Empress Liang had no sons of her own, and she harbored secret resentment and jealousy. The palace concubines gave birth to sons, but few were able to survive.
Although Emperor Huan was persecuted and feared Liang Ji, he did not dare to criticize and anger Empress Liang. However, he was fortunate to see Liang Empress rarely in person.
In the second year of Yanxi, Empress Liang died of sorrow and hatred. After reigning for thirteen years, she was buried in Yiling.
In this year, Liang Ji was executed and Yiling was abandoned as a tomb for nobles.
Deng Meng's daughter, Empress Huan Deng, was the daughter of Deng Xiang, cousin of Empress He Xi.
Her mother's name is Xuan. She married Deng Xiang first and gave birth to a fierce daughter.
Remarried Liang Ji, who was the uncle of Sun Shou, the wife of General Liang Ji.
Deng Meng's daughter lost her father when she was young. She followed her mother to live in Liang Ji's house, so she assumed the surname Liang.
Sun Shou, the wife of Liang Ji, saw that Deng Meng's daughter was beautiful. Emperor Huan entered Yeting in Yongxing and became a prostitute. She was extremely favored by Emperor Huan.
In the second year, Deng Yan, Deng Meng's daughter brother, was granted the title of Marquis of Nanton, a special advancement.
Deng Yan died and was succeeded by his son Deng Kang.
When Queen Liang Nuying of Yixian Liang passed away, Liang Ji was executed, and Deng Mengnu was established as queen.
Emperor Huan hated the Liang family so much that he changed the queen's surname to Bo and granted the title of Queen of Chang'an to the mother of Queen Deng.
In the fourth year, the steward told Queen Deng that it was not appropriate to change her surname to the daughter of Deng Xiang, one of Queen Deng's doctors, so the surname was restored to Deng.
Deng Xiang's chariot and cavalry general Anyang Hou Yinshou was posthumously granted the title, and his mother Xuan and nephew Deng Kang were granted the title of Grand County.
Announcement of death, carriages, horses, money, and funerals were all carried out according to the Queen's mother's funeral arrangements.
Deng Kang's younger brother Deng Tong was granted the title of Marquis of Kunyang, with the title of Shizhong; Deng Tong's cousin Deng Hui was granted the title of Marquis of Anyang, and he was granted the title of Huben Zhonglang General; Deng Tong's younger brother Deng Bing was also granted the title of Marquis of Yuyang.
The Deng clan is ranked among the top schools and generals.
Emperor Huan was favored by many, and he had as many as five or six thousand maids in his palace, and many times as many as he commanded and followed.
Empress Deng relied on her high position to be arrogant and jealous, and framed and accused each other with Guo Guiren, who was favored by Emperor Huan.
In the eighth year of Yanxi's reign, after Emperor Huan's edict was abolished, he was sent to Ye Ting to be raped and died of melancholy.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
立七年。
葬于北邙。
从父河南尹万世及会皆下狱死。
统筹亦系暴室，免官爵，归本郡，财物没入县官。
桓思窦皇后讳妙，章德皇后从祖弟之孙女也。父武。
延熹八年，邓皇后废，后以选入掖庭为贵人，其冬，立为皇后，而御见甚稀，帝所宠唯采女田圣等。永康元年冬，帝寝疾，遂以圣等九女皆为贵人。
及崩，无嗣，后为皇太后。
太后临朝定策，立解犊亭侯宏，是为灵帝。
太后素忌忍，积怒田圣等，桓帝梓宫尚在前殿，遂杀田圣。
又欲尽诛诸贵人，中常侍管霸、苏康苦谏，乃止。
时太后父大将军武谋诛宦官，而中常侍曹节等矫诏杀武，迁太后于南宫云台，家属徙比景。
窦氏虽诛，帝犹以太后有援立之功，建宁四年十月朔，率群臣朝于南宫，亲馈上寿。
黄门令董萌因此数为太后诉怨，帝深纳之，供养资奉有加于前。
中常侍曹节、王甫疾萌附助太后，诬以谤讪永乐宫，萌坐下狱死。
熹平元年，太后母卒于比景，太后感疾而崩。
立七年。
合葬宣陵。
孝仁董皇后讳某，河间人。
为解犊亭侯苌夫人，生灵帝。
建宁元年，帝即位，追尊苌为孝仁皇，陵曰慎陵，以后为慎园贵人。及窦氏诛，明年，帝使中常侍迎贵人，并征贵人兄宠到京师，上尊号曰孝仁皇后，居南宫嘉德殿，宫称永乐。
拜宠执金吾。
后坐矫称永乐后属请，下狱死。
及窦太后崩，始与朝政，使帝卖官求货，自纳金钱，盈满堂室。
中平五年，以后兄子卫尉脩侯重为票骑将军，领兵千余人。
初，后自养皇子协，数劝帝立为太子，而何皇后恨之，议未及定而帝崩。
何太后临朝，重与太后兄大将军进权势相害，后每欲参干政事，太后辄相禁塞。
后忿恚詈言曰： 汝今辀张，怙汝兄耶？
translation: 
Became queen for seven years.
Buried in Beimang.
Empress Deng's uncles, Henan Yin Deng Wanshi and Huben Zhonglang, imprisoned Deng Hui and died.
Deng Tong was also detained in the violent chamber, removed from the title of Marquis of Kunyang and the official position of Shizhong, and was sent back to his own county. His property was confiscated.
Queen Huansi Dou Miao, the granddaughter of Queen Zhangde's ancestral brother, and her father Dou Wu.
In the eighth year of Yanxi reign of Emperor Huan, Empress Deng and Deng Meng were deposed, and Dou Miao was elected to Yeting as a noble. In the winter of that year, she was established as a queen. Emperor Huan seldom favored her. The most favored by Emperor Huan were Cai Nv Tian Sheng and others.
Emperor Huan died without heirs, and Empress Dou became the empress dowager.
The Queen Mother made a decision before the court and appointed Liu Hong, Marquis of Jieduting, as the Ling Emperor.
Empress Dowager Dou was jealous and cruel by nature, and she was angry with Tian Sheng and others. When Emperor Huan's coffin was still in the front hall, she killed Tian Sheng.
He also wanted to kill all the nobles, but the ministers Guan Ba ​​and Su Kang tried hard to persuade him, so he did not take action.
At this time, Dou Wu, Empress Dowager Dou's father, conspired to kill the eunuchs. However, Cao Jie and others falsely claimed that Emperor Ling's edict had been issued to kill Dou Wu. Empress Dowager Dou was moved to Nangong Yuntai, and her family was exiled to Bijing.
Although Dou Wu was executed, Emperor Ling still remembered Empress Dowager Dou's contribution to establishing him as emperor. On the first day of October in the fourth year of Jianning, he led his ministers to go to the Nangong Palace to congratulate the Empress Dowager on her birthday.
Huangmen ordered Dong Meng to express his grievances to the Queen Mother many times. Emperor Ling accepted them one by one, and the support and funds were increased than before.
The ministers Cao Jie and Wang Fuji hated Dong Meng for helping Empress Dowager Dou, so they framed him for slandering the Yongle Palace where Emperor Ling's mother lived. Dong Meng was imprisoned and died for his crime.
In the first year of Xiping, Queen Mother Dou's mother died in Bijing, and the Queen Mother died of illness.
Stand for seven years.
Buried in Xuanling together with Emperor Huan.
Empress Xiaoren Dong was from Hejian.
To Mrs. Chang, the Marquis of Jieduting, she gave birth to Emperor Ling.
In the first year of Jianning, Emperor Ling came to the throne and honored Chang as Emperor Xiaoren. The mausoleum was named Shenling. Later, he was named Shenyuan nobleman until Dou Wu was executed. In the second year, Emperor Ling sent Zhong Changshi to welcome the nobleman and recruited Dong Chong, the nobleman's brother, to the capital. He was named Empress Xiaoren and lived in the Jiade Hall of Nangong. The palace was called Yongle.
He worshiped Dong Chong as his successor King Wu.
Later, he falsely claimed that he was a subordinate of Yongle Empress, and died after being imprisoned.
After the death of Empress Dowager Dou, Empress Xiaoren participated in the affairs of the court, causing the emperor to sell his officials to obtain property, and to collect money from himself, the palace was full.
In the fifth year of Emperor Zhongping's reign, Empress Xiaoren's brother, Weiwei Xiuhou Dong Chong, was appointed as the hussar general, leading more than a thousand troops.
At first, Empress Xiaoren raised her own prince Liu Xie and repeatedly urged the emperor to establish him as the crown prince. However, Empress He was resentful and Emperor Ling died before the agreement was reached.
When Empress Dowager He came to the court, Dong Chong was in conflict with the power of General He Jin, Empress Dowager He's brother. Every time Empress Xiaoren wanted to interfere in political affairs, Empress Dowager He forbade her to stop him.
Queen Xiaoren cursed angrily: Are you so domineering now, relying on your brother's power?


Chunk 6: 
original: 
当敕票骑断何进头来。 何太后闻，以告进。
进与三公及弟车骑将军苗等奏： 孝仁皇后使故中常侍夏惲、永乐太仆封谞等交通州郡，辜较在所珍宝货赂，悉入西省。
蕃后故事不得留京师，舆服有章，膳羞有品。请永乐后迁宫本国。 奏可。
何进遂举兵围骠骑府，收重，重免官自杀。
后忧怖，疾病暴崩，在位二十二年。
民间归咎何氏。
丧还河间，合葬慎陵。
灵帝宋皇后讳某，扶风平陵人也，肃宗宋贵人之从曾孙也。建宁三年，选入掖庭为贵人。
明年，立为皇后。
父酆，执金吾，封不其乡侯。
后无宠而居正位，后宫幸姬众，共谮毁。
初，中常侍王甫枉诛勃海王悝及妃宋氏，妃即后之姑也。
甫恐后怨之，乃与太中大夫程阿共构言皇后挟左道祝诅，帝信之。
光和元年，遂策收玺绶。
后自致暴室，以忧死。
在位八年。
父及兄弟并被诛。
诸常侍、小黄门在省闼者，皆怜宋氏无辜，共合钱物，收葬废后及酆父子，归宋氏旧茔皋门亭。
帝后梦见桓帝怒曰： 宋皇后有何罪过，而听用邪孽，使绝其命？
勃海王悝既已自贬，又受诛毙。
今宋氏及悝自诉于天，上帝震怒，罪在难救。 梦殊明察。
帝既觉而恐，以事问于羽林左监许永曰： 此何祥？
其可攘乎？ 永对曰： 宋皇后亲与陛下共承宗庙，母临万国，历年已久，海内蒙化，过恶无闻。
而虚听谗妒之说，以致无辜之罪，身婴极诛，祸及家族，天下臣妾，咸为怨痛。
translation: 
The hussar general was ordered to cut off He Jin's head. When Queen Mother He heard this, she told He Jin.
He Jin, Sangong and his younger brother Chariot and Cavalry General He Miao and others reported that Empress Xiaoren instigated her former servant Xia Yun, Yongle Taipu Feng and others to collude with the state and county, deprived the treasures and goods where they lived, and transferred them all to Yongle Palace.
In the past, the Queen of Tibet was not allowed to stay in the capital. There were certain rules for the dress of the public servants and a certain taste for food. Now please ask the Queen of Yongle to move the palace to her feudal state. Emperor's instructions: Yes.
He Jin then sent troops to surround the palace of the hussar general Dong Chong, and arrested Dong Chong. Dong Chong was dismissed from office and committed suicide.
Queen Xiaoren was worried and frightened. She fell ill and died suddenly. She reigned for twenty-two years.
The public blamed He Jin for this incident.
Queen Xiaoren's coffin was returned to Hejian and buried in Shenling together with Liu Chang.
Empress Ling of the Song Dynasty, a native of Pingling, Fufeng, and great-grandson of Emperor Suzong Zhang of the Song Dynasty. In the third year of Jianning, Emperor Ling selected Yeting as a nobleman.
The next year, she was made queen.
His father Song Feng, who held the title of Jinwu, could not grant the title of Marquis of his hometown.
The Empress of Song Dynasty was not favored by the Emperor Ling and occupied the position of empress. There were many favored concubines in the harem, and they all jointly slandered the Empress of Song Dynasty.
At first, Wang Fu, the official in charge of the imperial court, killed Bohai King Liu Kui and his concubine Song, who was the aunt of Empress Song.
Wang Fu was afraid that Empress Song would resent him, so he and Taizhong doctor Cheng A jointly fabricated lies and falsely accused Empress Song of being a witch and bewitching people to curse gods and bring disaster to people. Emperor Ling believed it.
In the first year of Guanghe, a policy letter was issued and the seal and ribbon were collected.
Empress Song herself walked into the Yeting violence room and died of depression.
Reigned for eight years.
His father and brothers were all killed.
All the regular attendants and those from Xiaohuangmen in the Forbidden Palace felt sorry for Empress Song, who had no fault at all, and jointly raised funds to collect and bury Empress Song and her father and son, and returned them to the Song family's old tomb Gaomen Pavilion.
Emperor Ling later dreamed that Emperor Huan was angry and said: "What crime did Empress Song have? Did you listen to those evil words and make her die?"
Bohai King Liu Kui had both devalued himself and was executed.
Now the Song family and Liu Kui have complained to heaven. Heaven is furious and it is difficult to remedy your sins.
The content of this dream is very clear. Emperor Ling was very panicked when he woke up, so he asked Xu Yong, the left prisoner of Yulin, about the matter: "What kind of ominous sign is this?"
Can it be removed? Xu Yong replied: Empress Song inherited the throne together with the emperor and came to the world as a mother. Over the years, people all over the world have been taught by her, and she has never heard of any wrongdoing or evil.
But the emperor listened to the slanderous and jealous words, causing her to suffer an innocent crime, and was killed. This brought disaster to the family, and all the ministers and concubines complained and lamented.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
勃海王悝，桓帝母弟也。处国奉藩，未尝有过。陛下曾不证审，遂伏其辜。
昔晋侯失刑，亦梦大厉被发属地。天道明察，鬼神难诬。
宜并改葬，以安冤魂。
反宋后之徙家，复勃海之先封，以消厥咎。 帝弗能用，寻亦崩焉。
灵思何皇后讳某，南阳宛人。
家本屠者，以选入掖庭。
长七尺一寸。生皇子辩，养于史道人家，号曰史侯。
拜后为贵人，甚有宠幸。
性强忌，后宫莫不震慑。
光和三年，立为皇后。
明年，追号后父真为车骑将军、舞阳宣德侯，因封后母兴为舞阳君。
时王美人任娠，畏后，乃服药欲除之，而胎安不动，又数梦负日而行。
四年，生皇子协，后遂鸩杀美人。
帝大怒，欲废后，诸宦官固请得止。
董太后自养协，号曰董侯。
王美人，赵国人也。
祖父苞，五官中郎将。
美人丰姿色，聪敏有才明，能书会计，以良家子应法相选入掖庭。
帝愍协早失母，又思美人，作《追德赋》、《令仪颂》。
中平六年，帝崩，皇子辩即位，尊后为皇太后。
太后临朝。
后兄大将军进欲诛宦官，反为所害；舞阳君亦为乱兵所杀。
并州牧董卓被征，将兵入洛阳，陵虐朝庭，遂废少帝为弘农王而立协，是为献帝。
扶弘农王下殿，北面称臣。
太后鲠涕，群臣含悲，莫敢言。
董卓又议太后踧迫永乐宫，至今忧死，逆妇姑之礼，乃迁于永安宫，因进鸩，弑而崩。在位十年。
董卓令帝出奉常亭举哀，公卿皆白衣会，不成丧也。
translation: 
Liu Kui, King of Bohai, was the younger brother of Emperor Huan's mother. He had never made any mistakes in handling the affairs of the feudal state and serving the court as a vassal. However, His Majesty had him convicted and executed without verification and scrutiny.
In the past, the Marquis of Jin dreamed of a big fierce ghost with long hair that reached the ground. It was because the Marquis of Jin had killed the ancestors of the fierce ghosts.
The moral principles between heaven and earth are clear, and it is difficult for ghosts and gods to deceive them.
They should be reburied together so that the innocent souls can rest in peace. Let Queen Song's exiled relatives return to their place of origin and restore the title of King Bohai, in order to eliminate the blame caused by this. Emperor Ling did not listen to Xu Yong's advice, and Emperor Ling died soon after.
Queen Lingsi He was from Wancheng, Nanyang.
The family was originally a butcher of pigs, so he was selected to join Yeting with bribes of gold and silk.
Seven feet and one inch long, he gave birth to the prince Liu Bian. He was raised in a Shidao family and was named Shihou.
Therefore, he became a nobleman and was favored by Emperor Ling.
She has a strong and fierce personality, and all the concubines in the harem are afraid of her.
In the third year of Guanghe's reign, she was established as queen.
The next year, her father He Zhen was granted the title of Chariot and Cavalry General and Wuyang Xuandehou, and her mother Xing was granted the title of Wuyang Lord.
At this time, Wang Meiren was pregnant and was afraid of Queen He's murder, so she took abortion pills in an attempt to abort the fetus, but the fetus was safe and motionless. She also dreamed of walking with the sun on her back many times.
In the fourth year of Guanghe's reign, the prince Liu Xie was born, and Queen He poisoned Wang Meiren to death.
The Ling Emperor was furious and wanted to depose Queen He, but the eunuchs repeatedly begged the Ling Emperor for mercy.
Empress Dowager Dong personally raised Liu Xie and named him Hou Dong.
Wang Meiren, a native of Zhao.
Grandfather Wang Bao, a general with great facial features.
Wang Meiren is beautiful, smart, talented, and can write and do calculations. She is a good family member who conforms to the law and is selected into Yeting.
Emperor Ling felt sorry for Liu Xie's early loss of his mother, and missed Wang Meiren in his heart. He wrote "Ode to Pursuing De" and "Ode to Lingyi" to express his grief.
In the sixth year of Zhongping, Emperor Ling died, and Prince Liu Bian came to the throne, respecting Queen He as the Queen Mother.
The Queen Mother comes to court.
The Queen Mother's brother, General He Jin, tried to kill the eunuchs, but He Jin was killed by the eunuchs. He's mother, Wuyang Jun, was also killed by the rebels.
Bingzhou Mu Dong Zhuo was recruited, led troops into Luoyang, ravaged the court, deposed the young emperor Liu Bian as the Hongnong King, and established Liu Xie as Emperor Xian.
Dong Zhuo helped King Hongnong go down to the palace and became a minister in the north.
Empress Dowager He choked with tears, and the ministers were sad and did not dare to say a word.
Dong Zhuo also criticized the Empress Dowager He for forcing Xiaoren Empress Dong to live in Yongle Palace, causing her to die of grief and anger, violating the filial piety that a daughter-in-law should have to her aunt, so he moved the Empress Dowager He to the Yong'an Palace and killed her with poison. She reigned for ten years.
Dong Zhuo called Emperor Xian to mourn at Fengchang Pavilion. All the ministers came to court in plain clothes. Without a funeral letter, it would not be a funeral.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
合葬文昭陵。
初，太后新立，当竭二祖庙，欲斋，辄有变故，如此者数，竟不克。
时有识之士心独怪之，后遂因何氏倾没汉祚焉。
明年，山东义兵大起，讨董卓之乱。
卓乃置弘农王于阁上，使郎中令李儒进鸩，曰： 服此药，可以辟恶。 王曰： 我无疾，是欲杀我耳！
不肯饮。
强饮之，不得已，乃与妻唐姬及宫人饮宴别。
酒行，王悲歌曰： 天道易兮我何艰！
弃万乘兮退守蕃。
逆臣见迫兮命不延，逝将去汝兮适幽玄！ 因令唐姬起舞，姬抗袖而歌曰： 皇天崩兮后土穨，身为帝兮命夭摧。
死生路异兮从此乖，奈我茕独兮心中哀！ 因泣下呜咽，坐者皆歔欷。
王谓姬曰： 卿王者妃，势不复为吏民妻。
自爱，从此长辞！ 遂饮药而死。时年十八。
唐姬，颍川人也。
王薨，归乡里。
父会稽太守瑁欲嫁之，姬誓不许。
及李傕破长安，遣兵抄关东，略得姬。
傕因欲妻之，固不听，而终不自名。
尚书贾诩知之，以状白献帝。
帝闻感怆，乃下诏迎姬，置园中，使侍中持节拜为弘农王妃。
初平元年二月，葬弘农王于故中常侍赵忠成圹中，谥曰怀王。
帝求母王美人兄斌，斌将妻子诣长安，赐第宅田业，拜奉车都尉。
兴平元年，帝加元服。
有司奏立长秋宫。
诏曰： 朕禀受不弘，遭值祸乱，未能绍先，以光故典。
皇母前薨，未卜宅兆，礼章有阙，中心如结。
translation: 
Buried together in Wenzhao Mausoleum.
At the beginning, Queen Mother He was newly established, and she was supposed to visit the Second Ancestral Temple and wanted to fast, but something happened every time. This happened several times, and it was not possible in the end.
At this time, the knowledgeable people felt very strange. Later they realized that the Han family's world was overturned by the hands of the He family!
In the second year, Shandong rebels rose up to attack Dong Zhuo's dictatorship and chaos.
Dong Zhuo then placed King Hongnong in the pavilion and asked the doctor to order Li Ru to take poison. He said to King Hongnong: "Taking this medicine can get rid of evil filth." King Hongnong said: I have no disease, you just want to kill me!
Refuse to take it.
Dong Zhuo forced him to drink it. As a last resort, he had a banquet with his wife Tang Ji and the palace officials to say goodbye.
During the drinking ceremony, King Hongnong sang sadly: The way of heaven has changed, how difficult it is for me!
Abandon the country of ten thousand chariots and retreat to become a vassal king.
The persecution of my rebels has prevented my life from being extended. I will leave you and go to a dark and mysterious place! So Tang Ji was asked to dance, and Tang Ji raised her sleeves and sang: The emperor's sky is collapsing, and the earth behind him is falling. As an emperor, his life is short-lived.
You and I are on different paths in life and death, and we will be separated from each other from now on. But I am alone, and my heart is sad! As a result, I burst into tears and sobbed, and everyone sitting there also wanted to sigh.
King Hongnong said to Tang Ji: You are the king's concubine, and you can no longer be the wife of ordinary officials and common people.
I hope you love yourself and never be apart again! King Hongnong drank poison and died at the age of eighteen.
Tang Ji, a native of Yingchuan.
King Hongnong died and returned to his hometown.
Her father, Tang Mao, the governor of Kuaiji, wanted her to remarry, but Tang Ji swore not to do so.
When Li Chu broke through Chang'an, he sent troops to inspect Guandong and captured Tang Ji.
Li Chu wanted her to be his wife, but Tang Ji refused and refused to say that she was the concubine of King Hongnong.
Shangshu Jia Xu knew about this.
Emperor Xian was told about it, and Emperor Xian was moved and saddened by the news. He issued an edict to welcome Tang Ji, placed her in a garden bed, and sent an attendant to hold a talisman to confer Tang Ji as Princess Hongnong.
In February of the first year of Emperor Xian's reign, King Hongnong was buried in a cave made by Zhao Zhong, who had always served him in his hometown. He was posthumously named King Huai.
Emperor Xian found Wang Bin, the brother of his mother Wang Meiren. Wang Bin took his wife to Chang'an, rewarded him with a house and land, and worshiped him as Captain Che.
In the first year of Xingping, Emperor Xian crowned him.
The steward asked for a queen.
Emperor Xian issued an edict saying: "My talents are not very great, and I am encountering disasters. I am unable to overcome the great achievements of Shao's ancestors and glorify the rules and regulations of the previous dynasty."
My mother passed away before her, and she didn’t have a mausoleum. There was a lack of etiquette, and she was worried.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
三岁之戚，盖不言吉，且须其后。 于是有司乃奏追尊王美人为灵怀皇后，改葬文昭陵，仪比敬、恭二陵，使光禄大夫持节行司空事奉玺绶，斌与河南尹骆业复土。
斌还，迁执金吾，封都亭侯，食邑五百户。
病卒，赠前将军印绶，谒者监护丧事。
长子端袭爵。
献帝伏皇后讳寿，琅邪东武人，大司徒湛之八世孙也。
父完，沉深有大度，袭爵不其侯，尚桓帝女阳安公主，为侍中。
初平元年，从大驾西迁长安，后时入掖庭为贵人。
兴平二年，立为皇后，完迁执金吾。
帝寻而东归，李傕、郭汜等追败乘舆于曹阳，帝乃潜夜度河走，六宫皆步行出营。
后手持缣数匹，董承使符节令孙徽以刃胁夺之，杀傍侍者，血溅后衣。
既至安邑，御服穿敝，唯以枣栗为粮。
建安元年，拜完辅国将军，仪比三司。
完以政在曹操，自嫌尊戚，乃上印绶，拜中散大夫，寻迁屯骑校尉。
十四年卒，子典嗣。
自帝都许，守位而已，宿卫兵侍，莫非曹氏党旧姻戚。
议郎赵彦尝为帝陈言时策，曹操恶而杀之。
其余内外，多见诛戮。
操后以事入见殿中，帝不任其愤，因曰： 君若能相辅，则厚；不尔，幸垂恩相舍。 操失色，俯仰求出。
旧仪，三公领兵朝见，令虎贲执刃挟之。
操出，顾左右，汗流浃背，自后不敢复朝请。
董承女为贵人，操诛承而求贵人杀之。
帝以贵人有妊，累为请，不能得。
translation: 
The three-year service period is sad, so this matter should not be mentioned, and it will be discussed later. So the stewards petitioned Wang Mei to be Queen Linghuai, and she was reburied in Wen Zhaoling. The ceremonial scale was compared to Emperor Zhang's Jingling Mausoleum and Emperor An's Gongling Mausoleum. Doctor Guanglu was sent to hold the talisman festival to perform the Sikong service and present the seal ribbon. Wang Bin and Henan Yin Luoye returned to their native land.
Wang Bin returned, was promoted to the post of Jinwu, and was granted the title of Marquis of Tingting, with a settlement of 500 households.
If he died of illness, he would be given the seal and ribbon of the former general, and the visitors would supervise the funeral.
The eldest son Wang Rui ascended the throne.
Fu Shou, Empress Xian Emperor Fu, was a martial artist from Langfu East and the eighth grandson of Great Situ Fu Zhan.
After his father's death, he was calm and dignified. He married Princess Yang'an, the daughter of Emperor Huan, and became his servant.
In the first year of Emperor Xian's reign, he moved westward to Chang'an. At this time, Fu Shou entered Ye Ting as a nobleman.
In the second year of Xingping, she was established as queen, and after finishing her duties, she was appointed as Jinwu.
Soon, Emperor Xian returned eastward. Li Chu, Guo Si and others pursued and defeated Emperor Xian in Caoyang. Emperor Xian sneaked across the Yellow River to Shanxi at night, and all the concubines of the Sixth Palace left the camp on foot to follow him.
Queen Fu held several pieces of fine silk. Dong Cheng called Fu Jie and ordered Sun Hui to threaten to seize them with a sharp knife. He killed the attendants on the left and right, and blood spattered on Queen Fu's clothes.
When he arrived at Anyi, Emperor Xian's clothes were all rotten and he ate only jujubes.
In the first year of Jian'an, Fu Wan was appointed as the general of the auxiliary state, and the ritual system was the same as that of Sangong.
Fu Wan believed that all the political power was in the hands of Cao Cao, and he felt that he was regarded as the emperor's relative in vain, so he handed over his seal and was appointed Zhongsan doctor, and soon he was promoted to Tunqi Xiaowei.
He died in the fourteenth year and was succeeded by his son Fudian.
Emperor Xian moved the capital to Xuchang, but in vain he guarded the empty throne. He was on duty as a guard and attendant, and none of them was Cao Cao's old accomplices and in-laws.
Yilang Zhao Yan once gave advice to Emperor Xian, but Cao Cao hated him and killed him.
Most of the others who were not of the same mind as Cao Cao, both internally and externally, were executed.
Later, Cao Cao went to the palace to see Emperor Xian for some reason. Emperor Xian was extremely angry because he said: If you can help me, then I hope you will treat me kindly; otherwise, I hope you will love me and abandon me. Cao Cao was shocked and kowtowed to ask for help.
According to the old rules, when the three princes and high officials lead troops to meet the emperor, they must have tiger and benign soldiers armed with sharp weapons to threaten each other.
After Cao Cao withdrew, he looked around and was sweating profusely. From then on, Cao Cao did not dare to meet the emperor like this again.
Dong Cheng's daughter was a noble, so Cao Cao killed Dong Cheng and asked for his daughter to be killed.
Emperor Xian thought that the noble lady was pregnant, and repeatedly asked him to be exempted from execution, but in the end he could not get it.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
后自是怀惧，乃与父完书，言曹操残逼之状，令密图之。
完不敢发，至十九年，事乃露泄。
操追大怒，遂逼帝废后，假为策曰： 皇后寿，得由卑贱，登显尊极，自处椒房，二纪于兹。
既无任、姒徽音之美，又乏谨身养己之福，而阴怀妒害，苞藏祸心，弗可以承天命，奉祖宗。
今使御史大夫郗虑持节策诏，其上皇后玺绶，退避中宫，迁于它馆。
鸣呼伤哉！
自寿取之，未致于理，为幸多焉。 又以尚书令华歆为郗虑副，勒兵入宫收后。
闭户藏壁中，歆就牵后出。
时帝在外殿，引虑于坐。
后被发徒跣行泣过诀曰： 不能复相活邪？ 帝曰： 我亦不知命在何时！ 顾谓虑曰： 郗公，天下宁有是邪？ 遂将后下暴室，以幽崩。
所生二皇子，皆鸩杀之。
后在位二十年，兄弟及宗族死者百余人，母盈等十九人徙涿郡。
献穆曹皇后讳节，魏公曹操之中女也。
建安十八年，操进三女宪、节、华为夫人，聘以束帛玄纁五万匹，小者待年于国。
十九年，并拜为贵人。
及伏皇后被弑，明年，立节为皇后。
魏受禅，遣使求玺绶，后怒不与。
如此数辈，后乃呼使者人，亲数让之，以玺抵轩下，因涕泣横流曰： 天不祚尔！ 左右皆莫能仰视。
后在位七年。
魏氏既立，以后为山阳公夫人。
自后四十一年，魏景元元年薨，合葬禅陵，车服礼仪皆依汉制。
论曰：汉世皇后无谥，皆因帝谥以为称。
虽吕氏专政，上官临制，亦无殊号。
中兴，明帝始建光烈之称，其后并以德为配，至于贤愚优劣，混同一贯，故马、窦二后惧称德焉。
其余唯帝之庶母及蕃王承统，以追尊之重，特为其号，如恭怀、孝崇之比是也。
初平中，蔡邕始追正和熹之谥，其安思、顺烈以下，皆依而加焉。
赞曰：坤惟厚载，阴正乎内《诗》美好逑，《易》称归妹。
祁祁皇孋，言观贞淑。
translation: 
Queen Fu saw this situation and felt fear from then on. So she wrote a letter to her father, telling her about Cao Cao's brutal persecution and asking her father to make a secret plan to eradicate Cao Cao.
Fu Wan didn't dare to take action. By the 19th year, the secret was revealed.
Cao Cao was furious after the investigation, so he forced Emperor Xian to depose Empress Fu, and wrote a fake policy saying: Empress Fu Shou entered the palace from a humble position, and even ascended to the throne of empress and became prominent. It has been twenty-four years now.
She does not have the beauty of Huiyin like Queen Mother Wen and Queen Mother Wu, and lacks the blessings of careful self-cultivation and comfort. However, she harbors jealousy and harbors evil intentions insidiously, and cannot fulfill the destiny and worship the ancestors.
Now, Xi Lu, the imperial censor, is sent to hold Fu Jie Ce and write an edict, hand over the queen's seal and ribbon, retreat to the central palace, and move to other buildings. Alas!
How sad!
I took the blame for my life on my own and was not put on trial. I'm so lucky! He also appointed Shangshu Ling Hua Xin as hope Zanli's deputy and led his troops into the palace to arrest the ambush queen.
Fu Hou closed the door and hid in the wall. Hua Xin stretched out his hand to pull Fu Hou out.
At that time, Emperor Xian was in the outer hall and led Xi Cun to his seat.
After lying down and walking barefoot on foot, he passed by Emperor Xian and cried, saying goodbye and saying: "Can't you let me live anymore?"
Emperor Xian said: I don’t know how long my life can last! Looking back at Xi Lu, he said: Mr. Xi!
Is there such a thing in the world? So Cao Cao buried his queen in a violent chamber in Yeting, where he died under house arrest. The two princes he gave birth to were both poisoned and killed. Fu Hou reigned for twenty years, and more than a hundred of her brothers and clan members died. Nineteen of her mother and others were exiled to Zhuojun.
Cao Jie, Queen of Xianmu Cao, was the middle daughter of Duke Cao Cao of Wei.
In the 18th year of Jian'an, Cao Cao adopted three daughters, Cao Xian, Cao Jie, and Cao Huahua, as wives, and hired them to make 50,000 pieces of silk, Xuanjin and fumigation. The younger ones stayed in the country to wait until they were older.
In the 19th year of Jian'an, we worshiped each other as nobles.
When Queen Fu was killed, the next year, Cao Jie was made queen.
When Wei accepted the throne of Emperor Xian of the Han Dynasty, he sent an envoy to ask for the seal and ribbon, but Queen Cao Jie was angry and refused to give it.
After chasing the seal for several times, Empress Cao called the envoy in, scolded her personally, and threw the seal under the pavilion, crying and saying: God will not let you last long! Everyone present could not bear to look up at Queen Cao.
Queen Cao reigned for seven years.
After Cao Wei won the throne, he made Queen Cao the Duke of Shanyang.
Forty-one years later, Wei Jingyuan died in the first year of his life and was buried in the Zen Mausoleum together with Emperor Xian. The carriages, clothing, and etiquette were all based on the Han system.
Historians commented: The queens of the Han Dynasty did not have posthumous titles, and they were all given titles based on the emperor's posthumous title.
Although Emperor Gaozu and Empress Lu were in dictatorship, Emperor Zhao, Shangguan and Empress came to the court and had no special titles.
After Guangwu Zhongxing and Emperor Ming succeeded to the throne, he established the title of Guanglie for his mother, Queen Guangwuyin, and called her Queen Guanglieyin. Since then, virtue has been used as a match. As for the good and the foolish, the confusion has always been like this. Therefore, Empress Ma of Emperor Ming was called Empress Ma of Mingde; Empress Zhang of Emperor Dou was called Empress Zhang Dedou. They were all named after virtue.
The rest were only the emperor's concubine's mother and the Tibetan king Chengtong, who valued honor and had unique titles. For example, the emperor's mother, Zhang Diliang, was honored as empress Gonghuai and Xiaojing; the emperor Huan's mother, Liwuhou Liu Ji's concubine Ming, was honored as empress Xiaochong.
During the reign of Emperor Xian, Cai Yong began to pursue the posthumous title of Empress Deng Sui of Emperor Zhenghe as Empress Hexi Deng. From then on, empress Yanji of Emperor An was empress An Siyan, and empress Shun Di Liang's wife was empress Shunlie Liang. They were all given posthumous titles accordingly.
Historians praised: Kun is the earth, and its valuable thing is that it is heavy; Yin refers to women, and her responsibility is to be in the inner position. The "Book of Songs" says that the concubine is the wife of a gentleman because of her virtues;
Many concubines were married to the emperor to show their loyalty and virtuousness.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
媚兹良哲，承我天禄。
班政兰闺，宣礼椒屋。
既云德升，亦曰幸进。身当隆极，族渐河润。
视景争晖，方山并峻。
乘刚多阻，行地必顺。
咎集骄满，福协贞信。
庆延自己，祸成谁衅。
translation: 
A wise man, a charming man, accept this blessing from God.
Promulgate politics in Lan Gui, and promote ethics in Jiaowu.
Some rose to high positions due to their virtues, such as Queen Mingde Ma and Queen Hexi and Deng; others rose to prestigious positions due to luck, such as Queen An Siyan and Queen Lingsi He. If you are in a high position, your family will be blessed.
When I see the shadow of the sun, I want to strive for more brilliance; the lonely square mountain wants to stand tall.
If you blindly ride on a headstrong character, you will definitely encounter obstacles in many ways; if you follow the path of being humble and obedient like the earth, everything will go smoothly.
Jiuyan comes from pride and complacency, and fortune and fortune come from combining chastity and loyalty.
The continuation of auspiciousness depends entirely on oneself, and the cause of disaster cannot be attributed to the provocation of others.


