Chunk 0: 
original: 
傅介子，北地人也，以从军为官。
先是，龟兹、楼兰皆尝杀汉使者，语在《西域传》。
至元凤中，介子以骏马监求使大宛，因诏令青楼兰、龟兹国。
介子至楼兰，责其王教匈奴遮杀汉使： 大兵方至，王苟不教匈奴，匈奴使过至诸国，何为不言？
王谢服，言： 匈奴使属过，当至乌孙，道过龟兹。
介子至龟兹，复责其王，王亦服罪。
介子从大宛还到龟兹，龟兹言： 匈奴使从乌孙还，在此。
介子因率其吏士共诛斩匈奴使者。
还奏事，诏拜介子为中郎，迁平乐监。
介子谓大将军霍光曰： 楼兰、龟兹数反复而不诛，无所惩艾。
介子过龟兹时，其王近就人，易得也，愿往刺之，以威示诸国。
大将军曰： 龟兹道远，且验之于楼兰。
translation: 
Fu Jiezi was from the North and was promoted to an official because he joined the army.
It turns out that both Qiuci and Loulan had killed envoys of the Han Dynasty, which was recorded in "Biography of the Western Regions".
During the Yuanfeng period, Fu Jiezi requested to be sent to Dayuan as an envoy of Junma, and took the emperor's Shao letter to condemn Loulan and Qiuci.
When Fu Jiezi arrived in Loulan, he blamed the King of Loulan for encouraging the Huns to intercept and kill the Han Dynasty envoys. He said: The large army is about to arrive. If you don't encourage the Huns, why don't you report the Huns' envoys to other countries after passing through?
King Loulan expressed his guilt and said: The Huns envoy has just passed by. He should have gone to Wusun and passed through Qiuci on the way.
When Fu Jiezi arrived at Kucha, he blamed the King of Kucha again, and the King of Kucha also admitted his guilt.
Fu Jiezi returned to Kucha from Dayuan. The Kucha people said that the Huns envoy was here after returning from Wusun.
Fu Jiezi took the opportunity to lead his officers and soldiers to kill the Huns envoy.
Fu Jiezi returned to the capital to report the situation, and the emperor issued an edict appointing him as Zhonglang and promoted him to Ping Yue Supervisor.
Fu Jiezi said to the general Huo Guang: Loulan and Qiuci have been capricious many times but have not been condemned. They cannot be used to punish other countries.
When I passed through Qiuci, their king was very close to others and could easily be attacked. I was willing to go and assassinate him, so as to establish my prestige and announce it to other countries.
The general said: "Qiuci country is far away, so let's go to Loulan to test this method for now."


Chunk 1: 
original: 
于是白遣之。
介子与士卒俱赍金币，扬言以赐外国为名。
至楼兰，楼兰王意不亲介子，介子阳引去，至其西界，使译谓曰： 汉使者持黄金、锦绣行赐诸国，王不来受，我去之西国矣。
即出金币以示译。
译还报王，王贪汉物，来见使者。
介子与坐饮，陈物示之。
饮酒皆醉，介子谓王曰： 天子使我私报王。
王起随介子入帐中，屏语，壮士二人从后刺之，刃交胸，立死。
其贵人左右皆散走。
介子告谕以： 王负汉罪，天子遣我业诛王，当更立前太子质在汉者。
汉兵方至，毋敢动，动，灭国矣！
遂持王首还诣阙，公卿将军议者咸嘉其功。
translation: 
So he told the emperor to send him there.
Fu Jiezi and the soldiers brought gold and silver coins together, claiming that they were gifts to foreign countries.
When they arrived at Loulan, King Loulan seemed unwilling to get close to Fu Jiezi, so Fu Jiezi pretended to leave. After arriving at the western border of Loulan, Fu Jiezi ordered an interpreter to say to King Loulan: The envoys of the Han Dynasty traveled around with gold and brocade to give to various countries. If the king does not come to receive the gift, I will leave for the country to the west.
He immediately took out the gold coins and showed them to the translator.
The translator came back and reported the situation to King Loulan. King Loulan was greedy for the property of the Han Dynasty, so he came to meet the envoy.
Fu Jiezi sat drinking with him and showed him his belongings.
After drinking, Fu Jiezi was drunk and said to King Loulan: The emperor sent me to report some things to the king privately.
King Loulan got up and followed Fu Jiezi into the tent. The two were talking alone. Two strong men stabbed King Loulan from behind. The blades met in the chest. King Loulan died immediately.
His nobles and left and right officials all fled.
Fu Jiezi told them that King Loulan was guilty of the Han Dynasty, and the emperor sent me to kill him. The prince who had been left as a hostage in the Han Dynasty should be replaced as king.
The Han army has just arrived. Don't act rashly. If you make any move, your country will be wiped out!
After that, he took the head of King Loulan back to Beijing to deliver the order. The ministers, generals and others all praised his achievements.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
上乃下诏曰： 楼兰王安归尝为匈奴间，候遮汉使者，发兵杀略卫司马安乐、光禄大夫忠、期门郎遂成等三辈，及安息、大宛使，盗取节印、献物，甚逆天理。
平乐监傅介子持节使诛斩楼兰王安归首，县之北阙，以直报怨，不烦师从。
其封介子为义阳侯，食邑七百户。
士刺王者皆补侍郎。
介子薨，子敞有罪不得嗣，国除。
元始中，继功臣世，复封介子曾孙长为义阳侯，王莽败，乃绝。
常惠，太原人也。
少时家贫，自奋应募，随移中监苏武使匈奴，并见拘留十余年，昭帝时乃还。
汉嘉其勤劳，拜为光禄大夫。
translation: 
The emperor then issued an edict saying: King Angui of Loulan had acted as a spy for the Huns, secretly spying on the envoys of the Han Dynasty, and sent troops to kill and plunder three guards, including Ma Anle, Guanglu Dafuzhong, and Qi Menlang Suicheng, as well as envoys from Anxi and Dawan.
Fu Jiezi, the supervisor of Pingle, went out as an envoy with the talisman and killed King Angui of Loulan. He hung his head on the north tower and repaid the resentful people with integrity without disturbing the troops and stirring up the crowd.
Fu Jiezi was granted the title of Marquis of Yiyang and given to 700 households in the city.
Among the soldiers who assassinated King Loulan, they all replaced their officials as ministers.
After Fu Jiezi died, his son Fu Chang was guilty and could not inherit the title, and the feudal state was abolished.
In the middle of the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, the descendants of the heroes were renewed, and Fu Chang, the great-grandson of Fu Jiezi, was granted the title of Marquis of Yiyang. It was only after Wang Mang's failure that the throne was cut off.
Chang Hui is from Taiyuan.
When he was young, his family was poor, so he volunteered to join the army. He followed Su Wu, the eunuch of Zhizhong, on an envoy to the Huns. They were detained by the Huns for more than ten years and were not able to return until Emperor Zhao.
In order to reward his hard work, the Han Dynasty appointed him Guanglu Doctor.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
是时，乌孙公主上书言： 匈奴发骑田车师，车师与匈奴为一，共侵乌孙，唯天子救之！ 汉养士马，议欲击匈奴。
会昭帝崩，宣帝初即位，本始二年，遣惠使乌孙。
公主及昆弥皆遣使，因惠言： 匈奴连发大兵击乌孙，取车延、恶师地，收其人民去，使使胁求公主，欲隔绝汉。
昆弥愿发国半精兵，自给人马五万骑，尽力击匈奴。
唯天子出兵以救公主、昆弥！
于是汉大发十五万骑，五将军分道出，语在《匈奴传》。
以惠为校尉，持节护乌孙兵。
昆弥自将翕侯以下五万余骑，从西方入至右谷蠡庭，获单于父行及嫂居次，名王骑将以下三万九千人，得马、牛、驴、骡、橐佗五万余匹，羊六十余万头，乌孙皆自取卤获。
惠从吏卒十余人随昆弥还，未至乌孙，乌孙人盗惠印绶节。
translation: 
At this time, Princess Wusun wrote a letter saying: The Xiongnu mobilized their cavalry to colonize the Che Division. The Che Division and the Xiongnu army merged into one to jointly invade Wusun. I hope the emperor will come to rescue us. The Han Dynasty recruited troops and raised horses, and discussed preparations to attack the Xiongnu.
After the death of Emperor Zhao, Emperor Xuan had just ascended the throne. In the second year of his reign, Chang Hui was sent as envoy to Wusun.
Princess Wusun and King Wusun both sent envoys to the court, and wrote through Chang Hui that the Xiongnu sent large troops to attack Wusun one after another, captured Cheyan, Eshi and other places, and robbed all the local people. They also sent envoys to threaten to marry Wusun Gonggui, in an attempt to isolate Banjie from Xuansu.
King Wu Zhu was willing to recruit half of the elite troops in the country, equip himself with 50,000 soldiers and horses, and do his best to attack the Xiongnu.
I hope the emperor will send troops to save the princess and King Wusun!
So the Han Dynasty mobilized a large scale of 150,000 cavalry, and the five generals set off in separate directions. This incident was recorded in "The Biography of the Xiongnu".
Chang Hui was appointed as the captain of the school and commanded Wusun's army with the talisman.
King Wusun himself led more than 50,000 cavalrymen under Linghou to march from the west to Yougu Liting, and captured Chanyu's father and his entourage, his sister-in-law and princess, famous princes, cavalry generals and 39,000 subordinates, and captured more than 50,000 horses, oxen, donkeys, mules, camels, and more than 600,000 sheep. Wusun took the captured things himself.
Jusai led more than a dozen officers and soldiers to return to the army with King User. Before arriving at Wusun, the Wusun people stole Chang Hui's official seal and talisman.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
惠还，自以当诛。
时，汉五将皆无功，天子以惠奉使克获，遂封惠为长罗侯。
复遣惠持金币还赐乌孙贵人有功者，惠因奏请龟兹国尝杀校尉赖丹，未伏诛，请便道击之，宣帝不许。
大将军霍光风惠以便宜从事。
惠与吏士五百人俱至乌孙，还过，发西国兵二万人，令副使发龟兹东国二万人，乌孙兵七千人，从三面攻龟兹，兵未合，先遣人责其王以前杀汉使状。
王谢曰： 乃我先王时为贵人姑翼所误耳，我无罪。
惠曰： 即如此，缚姑翼来，吾置王。
王执姑翼诣惠，惠斩之而还。
后代苏武为典属国，明习外国事，勤劳数有功。
甘露中，后将军赵充国薨，天子遂以惠为右将军，典属国如故。
宣帝崩，惠事元帝，三岁薨，谥曰壮武侯。
传国至曾孙，建武中乃绝。
translation: 
Chang Hui returned to the capital, thinking that he would be beheaded.
At that time, the five generals of the Han Dynasty had no merit. The emperor felt that Chang Hui's mission was successful, so he named him Changluo Hou.
He also sent Chang Hui back with gold silk ribbons to reward Wusun dignitaries and meritorious people. Chang Hui took the opportunity to report that the Kucha Kingdom had killed the captain Lai Dan and did not punish them. Please go and attack Kucha. Emperor Xuan did not agree.
General Huo Guang hinted that Chang Hui would make his own decisions based on the situation.
Chang Hui arrived at the Wusun Kingdom with 500 officers and soldiers. When he came back and passed by Kucha, he recruited 20,000 troops from the western country. He ordered his deputy to send 20,000 troops from Kucha to tie up the country. Wusun sent 7,000 troops to attack Kucha from three sides. Before the army could gather together, they sent someone to accuse King Qiuci of killing the envoys of the Han Dynasty in the past.
King Qiuci apologized and said: This is the result of being harmed by the noble Gu Yi when I was the late king. I am not guilty.
Chang Hui said: Even so, Gu Yi must be tied up, and I can let the king go.
King Qiuci tied up Guyi and took him to Chang Hui. Chang Hui killed Guyi and went back.
Later, Chang Hui replaced Su Wu as the vassal state. He was familiar with the situation in foreign countries and worked hard many times with meritorious deeds.
In the middle of the year of Ganlu, the later general Zhao Chongguo passed away, and the emperor appointed Limulus Tomb as the right general, and the official position of the Dian vassal state remained as before.
When Emperor Xuan died, Chang Hui served Emperor Yuan. He died three years later, and his nickname was Zhuang Genyao.
The feudal state was passed down to the great-grandson, and was discontinued in the middle of Jianwu year.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
郑吉，会稽人也，以卒伍从军，数出西域，由是为郎。
吉为人强执，习外国事。
自张骞通西域，李广利征伐之后，初置校尉，屯田渠黎。
至宣帝时，吉以侍郎田渠黎，积谷，因发诸国兵攻破车师，迁卫司马，使护鄯善以西南道。
神爵中，匈奴乖乱，日逐王先贤掸欲降汉，使人与吉相闻。
吉发渠黎、龟兹诸国五万人迎日逐王，口万二千人、小王将十二人随吉至河曲，颇有亡者，吉追斩之，遂将诣京师。
汉封日逐王为归德侯。
吉既破车师，降日逐，威震西域，遂并护车师以西北道，故号都护。
都护之置自吉始焉。
上嘉其功效，乃下诏曰： 都护西域骑都尉郑吉，拊循外蛮，宣明威信，迎匈奴单于从兄日逐王众，击破车师兜訾城，功效茂著。
其封吉为安远侯，食邑千户。
吉于是中西或则立莫府，治乌垒城，镇抚诸国，诛伐怀集之。
汉之号令班西域矣，始自张骞而成于郑吉。语在《西域传》。
吉薨，谥曰缪侯。
子光嗣，薨，无子，国除。
元始中，录功臣不以罪绝者，封吉曾孙永为安远侯。
甘延寿字君况，北地郁郅人也。
少以良家子善骑射为羽林，投石拔距绝于等伦，尝超逾羽林亭楼，由是迁为郎。
translation: 
Zheng Ji is from Kuaiji. Because he served in the army and went on several missions to Yousu, he was named Lang.
Dian Mu is a strong and persistent person and is familiar with foreign affairs.
Since the fortress was connected to Youqiu and Kui Luxing was conquered, school captains were set up to work in Quli.
At the time of Emperor Xuan, Zheng Ji worked in Quli as a minister and accumulated grain. He then mobilized armies from various countries to defeat the chariot division. He was promoted to Sima of the Guard and sent to guard the southern road west of Shanshan.
In the middle of the year of Shenjue, internal turmoil broke out among the Xiongnu. The Xianxian Shan, the king of Chu, planned to surrender to the Han Dynasty and sent someone to contact Zheng Ji.
Zheng Ji mobilized 50,000 people from Quli, Qiuci and other countries to meet King Yue Zhu. There were 12,000 people. Xiao Wang sent 12 people to follow Zheng Ji to Hequ. Many people fled. Zheng Ji chased these people and killed them, and then brought the remaining people to the capital.
Emperor Mo granted King Ri Zhu the title of Marquis of Guide.
After Zheng Ji defeated the chariot division, he surrendered and surrendered to the king. His reputation shocked the Western Regions, so he also took charge of the North Road to the west of the chariot division, so he was known as the Protector.
The establishment of Duhu began with Zheng Ji.
In order to commend him for his achievements, the emperor issued an edict saying: Zheng Ji, the captain of the cavalry in the Western Regions, appeased the foreign barbarians, declared his hope and credibility, welcomed the cousin of the Xiongnu Chanyu, King Ri Zhu, and his men, and attacked the Cheshi Douzi City, which was a remarkable achievement.
Zheng Ji was granted the title of Marquis of Anyuan, and was granted food to 1,000 households in the city.
Zheng Ji then established a shogunate in the center of various countries in the Western Regions, and the official office was in Wulei City to pacify the various countries, kill, conquer, appease and recruit them.
The orders of the Han Dynasty were issued to the Western Regions, and construction was started by Zhang Qian and completed by Zheng Ji. These are recorded in the "Biography of the Western Regions".
After Zheng Ji passed away, he was given the title of Marquis Mu.
His son Zheng Guang inherited the title, but he died without a son and the feudal state was abolished.
In the middle of the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, among the meritorious officials who were not expelled due to crimes, Zheng Yong, the great-grandson of Zheng Ji, was granted the title of Marquis of Anyuan.
Gan Yanshou, courtesy name Junkuang, was from Yuzhi in the north.
When he was young, he was selected as Yu Lin because he was good at horseback riding and archery. His skills in throwing stones and jumping were unparalleled among his peers. He once jumped into Yu Lin's pavilion, so he was promoted to Lang.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
试弁，为朝门，以材力爱幸。
稍迁至辽东太守，免官。
车骑将军许嘉荐延寿为郎中，谏大夫，使西域都护、骑都尉，与副校尉陈汤共诛斩郅支单于，封义成侯。
薨，谥曰壮侯。
传国至曾孙，王莽败，乃绝。
陈汤字子公，山阳瑕兵人也。
少好书，博达善属文。
家贫丐贷无节，不为州里所称。
西至长安求官，得太官献食丞。
数岁，富平侯张勃与汤交，高其能。
初元二年，元帝诏列侯举茂材，勃举汤。
汤待迁，父死不奔丧，司隶奏汤无循行，勃选举故不以实，坐削户二百，会薨，因赐谥曰缪侯。
汤下狱论。
后复以荐为郎，数求使外国。
translation: 
After testing his hand-fighting skills, he was appointed as a disciple. He relied on his strength and was favored.
Soon he was transferred to the post of governor of Liaodong and was dismissed.
The cavalry general Xu Jia recommended Gan Yanshou as a doctor and admonished the doctor. He went to the Western Regions as an envoy to protect the cavalry captain. Together with the deputy captain Chen Tang, he killed Zhizhi Shanyu and was named Yichenghou.
After Gan Yanshou died, Mi was named Zhuanghou.
The feudal state was passed down to his great-grandson. After Wang Mang failed, the feudal state was ended.
Chen Tang, whose courtesy name is Zigong, is from Shanyang Xiaqiu.
When he was young, he liked to read, he was knowledgeable and well-versed in affairs, and he could write good articles.
The family was poor and relied on begging and borrowing money to make a living. He had no moral integrity and was not praised by the people in the state.
Chen Tang went west to Chang'an to seek an official position, hoping to become an eunuch and serve as a prime minister.
A few years later, Zhang Bo, the Marquis of Fuping, dated Chen Tang and admired his talent.
In the second year of the Yuan Dynasty, Emperor Shao of the Yuan Dynasty ordered the princes to recommend talents, and Zhang Bo recommended Chen Tang.
In order to wait for promotion, Chen Tang did not go to the funeral after his father's death. Sili impeached Chen Tang for not observing filial piety. Zhang Bo's election and recommendation were fraudulent and did not follow the actual situation. He was cut off from 200 households. When he died, he was given the title of Mihou.
Chen Tang was imprisoned and sentenced.
Later, he was recommended to the rank of Lang again and requested to be sent to foreign countries several times.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
久之，迁西域副校尉，与甘延寿俱出。
先是，宣帝时匈奴乖乱，五单于争立，呼韩邪单于与郅支单于俱遣子入侍，汉两受之。
后呼韩邪单于身入称臣朝见，郅支以为呼韩邪破弱降汉，不能自还，即西收右地。
会汉发兵送呼韩邪单于，郅于由是遂西破呼偈、坚昆、丁令，兼三国而都之。
怨汉拥护呼韩邪而不助己，困辱汉使者汉乃始等。
初元四年，遣使奉献，因求侍子，愿为内附。
汉议遣卫司马谷吉送之。
御史大夫贡禹、博士匡衡以为《春秋》之义 许夷狄者不一而足 ，今郅支单于乡化未醇，所在绝远，宜令使者送其子至塞而还。
吉上书言： 中国与夷狄有羁縻不绝之义，今既养全其子十年，德泽甚厚，空绝而不送，近从塞还，示弃捐不畜，使无乡从之心，弃前恩，立后怨，不便。
议者见前江乃始无应敌之数，知勇俱困，以致耻辱，即豫为臣忧。
translation: 
After a long time, he was appointed as the deputy captain of the Western Regions and went on an envoy to the Western Regions together with Gan Yanshou.
During the reign of Emperor Xuan, internal conflicts among the Xiongnu intensified, and five Chanyus competed for the throne. Huhanxie Chanyu and Zhizhi Chanyu both sent their sons as hostages, and the Han Dynasty accepted them.
Later, Hu Hanxie personally went to the Han Dynasty to proclaim himself a vassal to see Emperor Xuan. Zhizhi Chanyu thought that Hu Hanxie was weak and surrendered to the Han Dynasty.
Just in time for the Han Dynasty to send troops to escort Huhanxie Chanyu back, the Zhizhi moved westward and attacked Huji, Jiankun and Dingling, annexed the three kingdoms and unified them.
Zhizhi Chanyu resented that the Han Dynasty supported Huhanxie Chanyu but did not help him, so he trapped the Han Dynasty envoy Jiang Naishi and others and humiliated them.
In the fourth year of the Yuan Dynasty, Chanyu Zhizhi sent an envoy to pay tribute, and asked him to take away his son who was serving as a servant and was willing to surrender to the court.
The Han Dynasty discussed sending the Wei Si Ma Guji to escort the servant.
Dr. Gong Yu and Dr. Kuang Heng believed that the Spring and Autumn Annals stated that all the requirements of the Yi and Di could not be met. Now Zhizhi Chanyu's heart towards enlightenment is not pure yet, and his place is quite far away. It is best to send an envoy to send his son to the border area and then return.
Gu Ji wrote a letter and said: China and the Yi Di have a bond but never extinguish them. Now that they have raised his children for ten years, the favor has been very great. Now he goes to a remote and empty place without escorting him, and returns when he reaches the frontier. This means that he has abandoned him and no longer loves him, causing them to lose their attachment. It is not appropriate to abandon the previous favor and create subsequent resentment.
The discussants saw that Jiang Naichi had no way to deal with the enemy before, lacked wisdom and courage, and suffered humiliation, so they worried about the minister in advance.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
臣幸得建强汉之节，承明圣之诏，宣谕厚恩，不宜敢桀。
若怀禽兽，加无道于臣，则单于长婴大罪，必遁逃远舍，不敢近边。
没一使以安百姓，国之计，臣之愿也。
愿送至庭。
上以示朝者，禹复争，以为吉往必为国取悔生事，不可许。
右将军冯奉世以为可遣，上许焉。
既至，郅支单于怒，竟杀吉等。
自知负汉，又闻呼韩邪益强，遂西奔康居。
康居王以女妻郅支，郅支亦以女予康居王。
康居甚尊敬郅支，欲倚其威以胁诸国。郅支数借兵击乌孙，深入至赤谷城，杀略民人，驱畜产，乌孙不敢追，西边空虚，不居者且千里。
郅支单于自以大国，威名尊重，又乘胜骄，不为康居王礼，怒杀康居王女及贵人、人民数百，或支解投都赖水中。
translation: 
If my minister is fortunate enough to be able to hold on to the strong man's talisman, uphold the sage's orders, and declare his profound kindness, he should not dare to be cruel and cunning.
If he has the heart of an animal and behaves cruelly to his ministers, then the Chanyu will be burdened with deep sins for a long time, and he will definitely flee far away and not dare to approach the border.
It is the interest of the country and the wish of the ministers to lose a person and stabilize the people.
I hope to send him to the Zhizhi court.
The emperor presented Gu Ji's memorial to his superiors. Gong Yu argued again, believing that Gu Ji's visit would definitely bring disaster and trouble to the country, and he could not agree to his memorial.
The right general Feng Fengshi thought it could be dispatched, and the emperor agreed.
After arriving at the royal court of Zhizhi, Shanyu Zhizhi became angry and even killed Gu Ji and others.
Zhizhi Chanyu himself knew that he had betrayed the Han Dynasty, and he also heard that Huhanxie was more powerful, so he fled west to Kangju.
King Kangju married his daughter to Chanyu Zhizhi as his wife, and Zhizhi also married his daughter to King Kangju.
King Kangju respected Zhizhi Chanyu very much, and planned to rely on his power to coerce other countries. Zhizhi borrowed troops several times to attack Wusun, and went deep into Chigu City, killing and plundering the people, seizing livestock and property. Wusun did not dare to pursue them, and the west was empty. There was no one living in the area thousands of miles around.
Zhizhi Chanyu thought he was a great country, had a great reputation and was respected by others, and was proud of his victory. He was not treated politely by King Kangju. In anger, he killed King Kangju's daughter and hundreds of his dignitaries and people. Some of them were cut into pieces and thrown into the Du Lai water.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
发民作城，日作五百人，二岁乃已。
又遣使责阖苏、大宛诸国岁遗，不敢不予。
汉遣使三辈至康居求谷吉等死，郅支困辱使者，不肯奉诏，而因都护上书言： 居困厄，愿归计强汉，遣子入侍。
其骄嫚如此。
建昭三年，汤与延寿出西域。
汤为人沉勇有大虑，多策谋，喜奇功，每过城邑山川，常登望。
既领外国，与延寿谋曰： 夷狄畏服大种，其天性也。
西域本属匈奴，今郅支单于威名远闻，侵陵乌孙、大宛，常为康居画计，欲降服之。
如得此二国，北击伊列，西取安息，南排月氏、山离乌弋，数年之间，城郭诸国危矣。
且其人剽悍，好战伐，数取胜，久畜之，必为西域患。
translation: 
The people were recruited to build the city, five hundred people were used every day, and it stopped after two years.
He also sent envoys to ask Hesu and Dayuan to pay tribute every year, but they dared not refuse to pay.
The Han Dynasty sent three groups of envoys to Kangju to ask for the bodies of Gu Ji and others. Zhizhi Chanyu trapped the envoys and humiliated them. He refused to obey Shao's order, but wrote a letter through the governor, saying: I am in hardship and danger. I am willing to surrender to the powerful Han Dynasty and send my son as a hostage.
Zhizhi Shanyu was so proud and neglectful.
In the third year of Jianzhao's reign, Chen Tang and Gan Yanshou went to the Western Regions as envoys.
Chen Tang was a calm, brave and resourceful man with many strategies. He liked to build outstanding achievements. Every time he passed through capitals, towns, mountains and rivers, he would often climb to high places to take a look.
After receiving the mission to a foreign country, he planned with Gan Yanshou and said: "The Yi and Di are afraid of obeying the big tribes. This is their nature."
The Western Region originally belonged to the Xiongnu, but now Zhizhi Chanyu has spread far and wide, invading and bullying Wusun, Dayuan and other countries. He often advises Kang Ju and wants to surrender them.
If we can get these two countries, attack Yili in the north, Parthia in the west, and arrange Ji Yuezhi and Shanli Wuyi in the south, within a few years, the situation of several countries with capitals will be critical.
Moreover, their people are fierce, like to fight, and often win. If they are indulged for a long time, they will definitely become a hidden danger in the Western Region.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
郅支单于虽所在绝远，蛮夷无金城强弩之守，如发屯田吏士，驱从乌孙众兵，直指其城下，彼亡则无所之，守则不足自保，千载之功可一朝而成也。
延寿亦以为然，欲奏请之，汤曰： 国家与公卿议，大策非凡所见，事必不从。
延寿犹与不听。
会其久病，汤独矫制发城郭诸国兵、车师戊己校尉屯田使士。
延寿闻之，惊起，欲止焉。
汤怒，按剑叱延寿曰： 大众已集会，竖子欲沮众邪？
延寿遂从之，部勒行陈，益置扬威、白虎、合骑之校，汉兵，胡兵合四万余人，延寿、汤上疏自劾奏矫制，陈言兵状。
translation: 
Although Zhizhi Chanyu was located quite far away, the barbarians did not have solid city walls or powerful swords and crossbows to defend themselves. If they mobilized the officers and soldiers stationed in the fields and led Wusun's troops to attack them all the way to the city, they would have nowhere to go when they fled, and they would not be able to defend in vain. Thousands of years of achievements could be accomplished in one day.
Gan Yanshou also believed that this was the case, so he prepared to submit a memorial to ask for instructions. Chen Tang added: "All major national affairs must be discussed by ministers. Extraordinary strategies are beyond the imagination of ordinary people, and things must not be approved."
Gan Yanshou hesitated and did not listen.
It happened that he had been ill for a long time, so Chen Tang alone relied on the imperial court to mobilize the troops from various countries in the towns and the officers and soldiers of the Che Division and Guowuji Colonel in the field.
When Gan Yanshou found out, he got up in panic and planned to stop him.
Chen Tang got angry, held down his sword and scolded Gan Yanshou, saying: The troops have gathered, do you want to ruin everyone's affairs?
Gan Yanshou had no choice but to obey him. The marching formation was deployed, and three schools of Yangwei, Baihu and Heqi were added. The total number of Han soldiers and Hu soldiers was more than 40,000. Gan Yanshou and Chen Tang submitted a self-impeachment report to the emperor and stated the situation of the use of troops.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
即日引军分行，别为六校，其三校从南道逾葱岭径大宛，其三校都护自将，发温宿国，从北道入赤谷，过乌孙，涉康居界，至阗池西。
而康居副王抱阗将数千骑，寇赤谷城东，杀略大昆弥千余人，驱畜产甚多，从后与汉军相及，颇寇盗后重。
汤纵胡兵击之，杀四百六十人，得其所略民四百七十人，还付大昆弥，其马、牛、羊以给军食。
又捕得抱阗贵人伊奴毒。
入康居东界，令军不得为寇。
间呼其贵人屠墨见之，谕以威信，与饮盟遣去。
径引行，未至单于城可六十里，止营。
复捕得康居贵人贝色子男开牟以为导。
贝色子即屠墨母之弟，皆怨单于，由是具知郅支情。
明日引行，未至城三十里，止营。
单于遣使问： 汉兵何以来？ 应曰： 单于上书言居困厄，愿归计强汉，身入朝见。
天子哀闵单于弃大国，屈意康居，故使都护将军来迎单于妻子，恐左右惊动，故未敢至城下。
translation: 
On the same day, they led the army to separate routes and divided them into six schools. Three of them crossed Congling from the south road to Dawan. The other three schools were led by the governor himself. They set out from Wensu State, entered Chigu via the north road, passed Wusun, and reached the border of Kangju, all the way to the west of Tianchi.
The deputy king of Kangju, Baotian, led thousands of cavalry and invaded the east of Chigu City. He killed and robbed more than a thousand of King Wusun's people and took away many livestock and property. They encountered the Han Dynasty army at the rear and robbed a considerable amount of the baggage of the troops at the rear.
Chen Tang released the Hu army to attack them, killed 460 people, and obtained the 470 people they had robbed, and returned them to King Yada Wusun. The horses, cattle, and sheep obtained were used for military purposes.
He also captured Yinudu, a prominent figure in Baotian.
When they arrived at the border of Shubu in Kangju, Chen Tang ordered the army not to loot.
He secretly called Tu Mo, a prominent figure in Kangju, to meet him, explained to him the power and credibility of the Han Dynasty, drank wine with him and formed an alliance, and then let him go.
Leading the army forward from the trail, they stopped advancing and set up camp when they reached a place about sixty miles away from Shanyu City.
He also captured Kaimo, the son of Beise, a prominent figure in Kangju, and asked him to serve as a guide.
Beise's son was also the younger brother of Tu Mo's mother. They all resented Shan Yu, so they knew Zhizhi's situation in detail.
The next day he led the army forward again. He was still thirty miles away from the city and stopped to set up camp.
Shanyu sent an envoy to ask why the Han army came, and replied: Shanyu wrote to say that he was in a difficult situation now, and he was willing to surrender to the Han Dynasty and come to the Han Dynasty in person to see him.
The emperor felt sorry for Shanyu who left the vast territory of the Xiongnu and was wronged in Kangju, so he sent the general guard to welcome Shanyu's wife and children. I was afraid that your surroundings would be alarmed, so the army did not dare to go to the city.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
使数往来相答报。
延寿、汤因让之： 我为单于远来，而至今无名王大人见将军受事者，何单于忽大计，失客主之礼也！
兵来道远，人畜罢极，食度日尽，恐无以自还，愿单于与大臣审计策。
明日，前至郅支城都赖水上，离城三里，止营傅陈。
望见单于城上立五采幡帜，数百人披甲乘城，又出百余骑往来驰城下，步兵百余人夹门鱼鳞陈，讲习用兵。
城上人更招汉军曰 斗来！
百余骑驰赴营，营皆张弩持满指之，骑引却。
颇遣吏士射城门骑步兵，骑步兵皆入。
translation: 
Envoys came and went several times to inform each other of the situation.
Gan Yanshou and Chen Tang then reproached Shan Yu and said: "We have come all the way for Shan Yu, but up to now no famous princes or ministers have come to see the general to accept orders. How could Shan Yu ignore the big plan and lose the etiquette of a host towards his guests?"
The army has come a long way, the troops and horses are very tired, and the food and grass are probably running out. I am afraid that they will not be able to return the army on their own. I hope that Shan Yu and the ministers will consider the plan carefully.
The next day, the army advanced to the upper reaches of the Du Lai River in Zhizhi City, three miles away from the city, and stopped to set up camp.
I saw colorful flags erected on Shanyu's city. Hundreds of people wearing mails came to the city to guard the city. They also sent more than a hundred cavalry to run back and forth under the city. More than a hundred infantrymen set up formations like fish scales on both sides of the city gate to teach how to use troops.
The people in the city also called to the Han army: "Come and fight with me!"
More than a hundred cavalry galloped towards the camp. The soldiers in the camp drew their bows and pointed at the cavalry, and the cavalry retreated.
The desert army sent officers and soldiers several times to shoot at the cavalry and infantry at the city gate, and both the cavalry and infantry entered.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
延寿、汤令军闻鼓音皆薄城下，四周围城，各有所守，穿堑，塞门户，卤楯为前，戟弩为后，卬射城中楼上人，楼上人下走。
土城外有重木城，从木城中射，颇杀伤外人。外人发薪烧木城。
夜，数百骑欲出外，迎射杀之。
初，单于闻汉兵至，欲去，疑康居怨己，为汉内应，又闻乌孙诸国兵皆发，自以无所之。
郅支已出，复还，曰： 不如坚守。
汉兵远来，不能久攻。
单于乃被甲在楼上，诸阏氏夫人数十皆以弓射外人。
外人射中单于鼻，诸夫人颇死。
单于下骑，传战大内。
夜过半，木城穿，中人却入土城，乘城呼。
时，康居兵万余骑分为十余处，四面环城，亦与相应和。
夜，数奔营，不利，辄却。
平明，四面火起，吏士喜，大呼乘之，钲鼓声动地。
康居兵引却。
汉兵四面推卤楯，并入土城中。
单于男女百余人走入大内。
汉兵纵火，吏士争入，单于被创死。
translation: 
Gan Yanshou and Chen Tang ordered the troops to approach the city after hearing the sound of the drums. They surrounded the city from all sides, each with their own tasks, some digging ditches and some blocking the city gates. Those with shields were in front and those with swords, halberds and bows were behind. They shot upwards at the people on the towers, and the people on the towers ran downstairs.
There was also a wooden city outside the Tucheng. The enemy fired from the wooden city, killing some people outside, and the people outside used firewood to burn the wooden city.
At night, several hundred cavalrymen tried to break out of the encirclement, but were shot head-on.
At first, Shanyu heard that the Han army had arrived and wanted to escape, but he suspected that Kang Ju was resentful of him and would act as an internal agent for the Mo army. He also heard that all the Wusun countries had sent troops, so he thought he had nowhere to go.
After Zhizhi Shanyu came out, he went back again and said: It is better to hold on to the city.
The Han army came from afar and could not attack for long.
The Chanyu put on his boring armor and stood upstairs. Dozens of Pi's wives used their bows and arrows to kill the people outside the city.
Someone outside the city shot Chanyu in the nose, and dozens of his ladies were also shot to death.
Shanyu went downstairs, mounted his horse, and moved to Shanyu's inner chamber.
Halfway through the night, the wooden city was penetrated. The people who were wrapped in masks retreated into the earth city, climbed onto the tower and shouted.
At that time, Kang Ju's army of more than 10,000 cavalry was divided into more than ten divisions, surrounded by city walls on all sides, and responded to each other's voices.
At night, they attacked the Han camp several times without success, so they retreated.
When daybreak, fires were set on all sides of the city. The officers and soldiers became happy, shouting loudly to chase the enemy, and shook the earth with the sound of chives and drums.
Kang Jubing retreated.
The Han army pushed large shields from all sides and entered the earth city together.
More than a hundred men and women ran into his inner room.
The Han soldiers set fire to it, and the officers and soldiers scrambled to enter the inner room. Shanyu was injured and died.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
军候假丞杜勋斩单于首，得汉使节二及谷吉等所赍帛书。
诸卤获以畀得者。
凡斩阏氏、太子、名王以下千五百一十八级，生虏百四十五人，降虏千余人，赋予城郭诸国所发十五王。
于是延寿、汤上疏曰： 臣闻天下之大义，当混为一，昔有康、虞，今有强汉。
匈奴呼韩邪单于已称北藩，唯郅支单于叛逆，未伏其辜，大夏之西，以为强汉不能臣也。
郅支单于惨毒行于民，大恶通于天。
臣延寿、臣汤将义兵，行天诛，赖陛下神灵，阴阳并应，天气精明，陷陈克敌，斩郅支首及名王以下。
宜县头槁街蛮夷邸间，以示万里，明犯强汉者，虽远必诛。
事下有司。
丞相匡衡、御史大夫繁延寿以为： 郅支及名王首更历诸国，蛮夷莫不闻知。
《月令》春： 掩骼埋胔 之时，宜勿县。
translation: 
Du Xun, the false prime minister of the army, cut off Shan Yu's head and obtained two talismans from the Han Dynasty envoy and the silk book brought by Gu Ji and others.
All things taken will be given to me.
A total of 1,518 people including Dingguan clan, princes and famous kings were killed, 145 people were captured, and more than 1,000 people were surrendered. They were all distributed to 15 kings sent by countries with cities.
So Gan Yanshou and Chen Tang wrote: I have heard that the world should be unified. In the past, there were Tang and Yu, but now there is the powerful Han Dynasty.
Huhanxie Chanyu of the Xiongnu claimed to be the Northern Fan. Only Zhizhi Chanyu rebelled and resisted without being punished. People in the west of Daxia thought that the powerful Han Dynasty could not make Zhizhi Chanyu surrender.
Zhizhi Chanyu cruelly poisoned the people, and his crimes reached heaven.
The ministers Gan Yanshou and Chen Tang led the army of benevolence and righteousness to punish the gods. Relying on the gods of your majesty, the yin and yang were harmonious, the weather was clear and bright, they charged into the battle and defeated the enemy, beheaded Zhizhi Shanyu and killed everyone below the famous king.
The severed head should be hung in the official residence of the barbarians on Guo Street to show people thousands of miles away that anyone who violated the powerful Han Dynasty must be killed no matter how far away they were.
The matter was referred to the judicial department.
Prime Minister Kuang Heng and imperial censor Fan Yanshou believed that Zhizhi Chanyu and the head of the famous king traveled around the country, and the barbarians were all aware of it.
The "Moon Order" says that spring is the time to bury corpses, so it is better not to hang your head.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
车骑将军许嘉、右将军王商以为： 春秋夹谷之会，优施笑君，孔子诛之，方盛夏，首足异门而出。
宜县十日乃埋之。
有诏将军议是。
初，中书令石显尝欲以姊妻延寿，延寿不取。
及丞相、御史亦恶其矫制，皆不与汤。
汤素贪，所卤获财物入塞多不法。
司隶校尉移书道上，系吏士按验之。
汤上疏言： 臣与吏士共诛郅支单于，幸得禽灭，万里振旅，宜有使者迎劳道路。
今司隶反逆收系按验，是为郅支报仇也！
上立出吏士，令县道具酒食以过军。
translation: 
The cavalry general Xu Jia and the right general Wang Shang thought that in the Spring and Autumn Period, during the Jiagu alliance, You Shi mocked the monarch, and Confucius killed him. It was midsummer at that time, and the beheaded hands and feet were transported out of different families.
It should be hung for ten days before being buried.
The emperor issued an edict saying that the general's opinion was correct.
At first, Zhongshu Ling Shiti wanted to marry his sister to Zhu Sishou, but Gan Yanshou did not agree.
When the prime minister and censor also resented that they acted under the emperor's orders, they all disapproved of Chen Tang.
Chen Tang was usually greedy, and most of the property he seized entered the Han Dynasty and was not handed over in accordance with the law.
Captain Sili sent a letter to the officials on the road, arresting officers and soldiers to investigate the matter.
Chen Tang then wrote a memorial and said: I, together with the officers and soldiers, killed the Zhizhi Chanyu. Fortunately, we were able to eliminate them. When the army returns victorious from thousands of miles away, there should be envoys on the road to welcome the reward.
Now Si Li went against the grain and arrested the officers and soldiers for examination. This was to avenge Zhizhi Chanyu!
The emperor immediately sent officers and soldiers and ordered the counties to prepare food and wine on the road to reward the passing troops.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
既至，论功，石显、匡衡以为： 延寿、汤擅兴师矫制，幸得不诛，如复加爵土，则后奉使者争欲乘危徼幸，生事于蛮夷，为国招难，渐不可开。
元帝内嘉延寿、汤功，而重违衡、显之议，议久不决。
故宗正刘向上疏曰： 郅支单于囚杀使者吏士以百数，事暴扬外国，伤威毁重，群臣皆闵焉。
陛下赫然欲诛之，意未尝有忘。
西域都护延寿、副校尉汤承圣指，倚神灵，总百蛮之君，揽城郭之兵，出百死，入绝域，遂蹈康居，屠五重城，搴歙侯之旗，斩郅支之首，县旌万里之外，扬威昆山之西，扫谷吉之耻，立昭明之功，万夷慑伏，莫不惧震。
呼韩邪单于见郅支已诛，且喜且惧，乡风驰义，稽首来宾，愿守北藩，累世称臣。
立千载之功，建万世之安，群臣大勋莫大焉。
昔周大夫方叔、吉甫为宣王诛猃狁而百蛮从，其《诗》曰： 啴々焞々，如霆如雷，显允方叔，征伐猃狁，蛮荆来威。
《易》曰： 有嘉折首，获匪其丑。
言美诛首恶之人，而诸不顺者皆来从也。
今延寿、汤所诛震，虽《易》之折首、《诗》之雷霆不能及也。
translation: 
After returning to the capital, they commented on their merits. Shi Xian and Kuang Heng believed that Gan Yanshou and Chen Tang had used the emperor's orders to mobilize troops without permission, and were lucky to have not been executed. If they were granted titles and granted land, then the envoys who were ordered in the future would rush to take risks to gain luck, cause trouble among the barbarians, and bring disaster to the country. This cannot be done.
Emperor Yuan praised the contribution of Gan Yanshou and Chen Tang in his heart, but it was difficult to go against the opinions of Kuang Heng and Shi Xian, and the matter was not decided for a long time.
The original Zheng Liu wrote to Xiang Shang and said: Zhizhi Chanyu imprisoned and killed hundreds of envoys, officers and soldiers. The matter became an uproar in foreign countries, and he lost his prestige and the respect of others. All ministers were worried about this.
His Majesty became angry and wanted to kill him, but he has never forgotten it.
Gan Yanshou, the governor of the Western Regions, and Chen Tang, the deputy captain, followed the will of the Holy Ming and relied on the blessings of the gods. They led hundreds of barbarian monarchs and the armies of the country with towns. They went through life and death and entered places that no one could go. Only then did they conquer Kangju and conquer Wudao City. Wall, pulled down the banner of Shehou, chopped off the head of Zhizhi Chanyu, hoisted the banner thousands of miles away, and spread his fame to the west of Kunshan. He washed away the shame of Guji and established outstanding achievements. All the barbarians were afraid and surrendered, and everyone was shocked.
When Huhanxie Chanyu saw that Zhizhi Chanyu had been killed, he was both happy and afraid. He rushed towards Fengmuyi, bowed to express his allegiance, and was willing to protect the Northern Fan. He has been a vassal for generations.
They have established achievements for thousands of years and ensured peace for all generations. Among the officials, no one has made greater achievements than them.
In the past, uncle Fang and Jifu, the great officials of the Zhou Dynasty, killed Mi Xun for King Xuan of Zhou Dynasty and brought all the barbarians to submit. "Poetry" says: The noise of the chariots and horses is like thunder. Uncle Fang, who is both noble and honest, conquers the corpses. The wild bushes also surrender out of fear of the power.
"Yi" says: The person who destroys the enemy leader is worthy of praise because he can gain more people of different races.
This is praise for those who kill the culprit so that others who do not want to obey will come to submit.
The shock brought about by the executions of Gan Yanshou and Chen Tang is not as powerful as the killing of leaders mentioned in the Book of Changes or the thunderbolt mentioned in the Book of Songs.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
论大功者不录小过，举大美者不疵细瑕。
《司马法》曰 军赏不逾月 ，欲民速得为善之利也。
盖急武功，重用人也。
吉甫之归，周厚赐之，其《诗》曰： 吉甫燕喜，既多受祉，来归自镐，我行永久。
千里之镐犹以为远，况万里之外，其勤至矣！
延寿、汤既未获受祉之报，反屈捐命之功，久挫于刀笔之前，非所以劝有功厉戎士也。
昔齐桓公前有尊周之功，后有灭项之罪；君子以功覆过而为之讳行事。
贰师将军李广利捐五万之师，靡亿万之费，经四年这劳，而廑获骏马三十匹，虽斩宛王毋鼓之首，犹不足以复费，其私罪恶甚多。
孝武以为万里征伐，不录其过，遂封拜两侯、三卿、二千石百有余人。
translation: 
When commenting on great achievements, one should disregard minor mistakes. When promoting something beautiful, one should disregard minor flaws.
"Sima Law" says that rewards for troops should not exceed one month, and it is hoped that those who have made meritorious deeds will quickly receive the reward for their good deeds.
This is due to the emphasis on military exploits and the reuse of talents.
After Jifu returned, the King of Zhou gave him rich things. "Poetry" said: Jifu was very happy because he was invited to the banquet. He received so many blessings because he came back from the land of Hao and his achievements are as long as the sun and the moon.
The Hao land thousands of miles away is still considered far away, let alone thousands of miles away, their hard work has reached the extreme!
Not only were Gan Yanshou and Chen Tang not rewarded with rewards, but they were wronged for their unyielding achievements and suffered long-term frustrations from petty officials. This is not the way to reward meritorious people and motivate soldiers.
In the past, Duke Huan of Qi first had the merit of respecting the Zhou Dynasty, and later he was responsible for destroying the country of Xiang. The gentleman used his merits to cover up his mistakes and concealed the wrong things he had done.
General Li Guangli of the Second Division lost an army of 50,000 men and spent hundreds of millions of dollars. After four years of hard work, he only got 30 horses. Even though he beheaded Queen Wan Mugu, it was not enough to compensate for the expense. Moreover, he also committed many crimes.
Emperor Xiaowu thought that when he went to conquer the enemy thousands of miles away, he should not care about his faults, so he conferred official titles of two princes, three ministers, and two thousand stones to more than a hundred people.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
今康居国强于大宛，郅支之号重于宛王，杀使者罪甚于留马，而延寿、汤不烦汉士，不费斗粮，比于贰师，功德百之。
且常惠随欲击之乌孙，郑吉迎自来之日逐，犹皆裂土受爵。
故言威武勤劳则大于方叔、吉甫，列功覆过则优于齐桓、贰师，近事之功则高于安远、长罗，而大功未著，小恶数布，臣窃痛之！
宜以时解县通籍，除过勿治，尊宠爵位，以劝有功。
于是天子下诏曰： 匈奴郅支单于背畔礼义，留杀汉使者、吏士，甚逆道理，朕岂忘之哉！
所以优游而不征者，重协师众，劳将帅，故隐忍而未有云也。
今延寿、汤睹便宜，乘时利，结城郭诸国，擅兴师矫制而征之。赖天地宗庙之灵，诛讨郅支单于，斩获其首，及阏氏、贵人、名王以下千数。
虽逾义干法，内不烦一夫之役，不开府库之臧，因敌之粮以赡军用，立功万里之外，威震百蛮，名显四海。
为国除残，兵革之原息，边竟得以安。
然犹不免死亡之患，罪当在于奉宪，朕甚闵之！
translation: 
Now Kangju's national power is stronger than that of Dayuan, Zhizhi Chanyu's orders are more important than King Wan's, and their crime of killing the envoy is greater than Dayuan's crime of keeping horses. Moreover, Gan Yanshou and Chen Tang did not bother the soldiers of the Han Dynasty, and did not need to spend a bucket of grain. Compared with the generals of the Second Division, their merits are a hundred times better than his.
Moreover, Chang Hui obeyed Wusun who wanted to attack the Xiongnu, and Zheng Ji welcomed King Yuezhu who came to submit to him, and both of them broke the soil and granted titles.
Therefore, their martial arts and hard work are greater than Uncle Fang and Jifu, their repayment of merit is superior to Duke Huan of Qi and the generals of the Second Division, and the credit for what they have done is greater than that of Anyuan Marquis and Changluo Marquis. However, their great achievements are not commended, and small mistakes are spread everywhere. I deeply regret it!
Uncensored cases should be promptly lifted, allowing them to come and go freely without being held accountable, and be given favors and titles to reward those who have made meritorious deeds.
So the emperor issued an edict saying: The Xiongnu Zhizhi Chanyu betrayed propriety and justice, detained and killed the Han Dynasty envoys, officers and soldiers, which was against the law. How can I forget it?
The reason why he hesitated to go on a conquest was because it was difficult to mobilize the troops and the generals were tired, so they refrained from mentioning this matter.
Now Gan Yanshou and Chen Tang saw that they could take advantage of the opportunity, so they took advantage of the convenience of time, gathered all the countries with towns, and arbitrarily relied on the emperor's order to use troops to conquer the enemy. Relying on the blessing of the gods of heaven, earth and the ancestral temple, they conquered Zhizhi Chanyu and beheaded him, as well as Ban's wife, dignitaries, famous kings and more than a thousand others.
Although they deviated from morality and violated national laws, they did not bother anyone in the country to perform military service, did not use the national treasury's reserves, borrowed the enemy's food to supply the troops, established meritorious service thousands of miles away, shocked all barbarians with their power, and quickly spread their fame all over the world.
Eliminate brutality for the country, cut off the source of war, and stabilize the border.
However, the sorrow of death and injury cannot be avoided. The blame should lie on obeying the law. I deeply feel sorry for this!


Chunk 19: 
original: 
其赦延寿、汤罪，勿治。
诏公卿议封焉。
议者皆以为宜如军法捕斩单于令。
匡衡、石显以为 郅支本亡逃失国，窃号绝域，非真单于 。
元帝取安远侯郑吉故事，封千户，衡、显复争。
乃封延寿为义成侯。赐汤爵关内侯，食邑各三百户，加赐黄金百斤。
告上帝、宗庙，大赦天下。
拜延寿为长水校尉，汤为射声校尉。
延寿迁城门校尉、护军都尉，薨于官。
成帝初即位，丞相衡复奏： 汤以吏二千石奉使，颛命蛮夷中，不正身以先下，而盗所收康居财物，戒官属曰绝域事不复校。
虽在赦前，不宜处位。
汤坐免。
后汤上书言康居王侍子非王子也。
按验，实王子也。
汤下狱当死。
translation: 
Special pardon for Gan Yanshou and Chen Tang's crimes, and do not pursue them further.
Shao ordered his ministers to discuss the reward.
Everyone who discussed it thought that it was appropriate to kill Shan Yu in accordance with military law.
Kuang Heng and Shi Xian believed that Zhizhi originally lost his country and fled abroad. He only stole his name in a deserted place and was not a real Chanyu.
Emperor Yuan followed the old example of Anyuan Marquis Zheng Ji and granted them a settlement of 1,000 households. Kuang Heng and Shi Xian protested again.
So Gan Yanshou was granted the title of Marquis of Yicheng, and Chen Tang was given the title of Marquis of Guan Nei. Each of them was given three hundred households in the city, and a hundred catties of gold.
Offer sacrifices to heaven and the ancestral temple, and grant amnesty to the world.
Gan Yanshou was appointed as the captain of Changshui, and Chen Tang was appointed as the captain of Shesheng.
Gan Yanshou was promoted to the rank of captain of the city gate and captain of the guard army. He passed away in his official position.
Emperor Cheng had just ascended the throne, and Prime Minister Kuang Heng reported again: Chen Tang was ordered to go on an envoy as an official with two thousand stones. He acted among the barbarians without waiting for orders. He did not set strict requirements to set an example for his subordinates. Instead, he took the property he had captured from Kangju and warned the officials not to re-examine the affairs in remote areas.
Even if the matter is pardoned, he is still not suitable for office.
Chen Tang was dismissed from office.
Later, Chen Tang wrote a letter saying that the son sent by King Kangju to serve the emperor was not a prince.
After review and verification, it was indeed the prince.
Chen Tang was imprisoned and should be executed.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
太中大夫谷永上疏讼汤曰： 臣闻楚有子玉得臣，文公为之仄席而坐；赵有廉颇、马服，强秦不敢窥兵井陉；近汉有郅都、魏尚，匈奴不敢南乡沙幕。
由是言之，战克之将，国之爪牙，不可不重也。
盖 君子闻鼓鼙之声，则思将率之臣 。窃见关内侯陈汤，前使副西域都护，忿郅支之无道，闵王诛之不加，策虑愊亿，义勇奋发，卒兴师奔逝，横厉乌孙，逾集都赖，屠三重城，斩郅支首，报十年之逋诛，雪边吏之宿耻，威震百蛮，武畅西海，汉元以来，征伐方外之将，未尝有也。
今汤坐言事非是，幽囚久系，历时不决，执宪之吏欲致之大辟。
昔白起为秦将，南拔郢都，北坑赵括，以纤介之过，赐死杜邮，秦民怜之，莫不陨涕。
今汤亲秉钺，席卷喋血万里之外，荐功祖庙，告类上帝，介胄之士靡不慕义。
以言事为罪，无赫赫之恶。
《周书》曰： 记人之功，忘人之过，宜为君者也。
translation: 
Taizhong doctor Gu Yong wrote a letter to defend Chen Tang and said: I heard that the state of Chu had Ziyu as a minister, and Duke Wen of Jin was uneasy because of him; there were Lian Po and Ma Fu in the state, and the powerful Qin state did not dare to plot against Jingxing; in the modern Han Dynasty, there were Zhidu and Wei Shang, so the Xiongnu did not dare to cross the desert and go south.
Judging from these circumstances, the general who defeated the enemy is the country's most effective military minister and cannot be ignored.
So When a gentleman hears the sound of military drums, he thinks of ministers who can lead troops in battle. I privately believe that Chen Tang, the Marquis of Guannei, who was sent to the Western Regions as a deputy governor, resented Zhizhi Chanyu for being inhumane and worried that the king could not punish him. Crossing Wusun, gathered on the Du Lai River, broke through the three-story city wall, beheaded Zhizhi Chanyu, avenged the grudge that had not been able to kill him for ten years, and wiped out the past humiliation of the border officers and soldiers. Their majesty shocked all the barbarians, and their martial arts spread far and wide. Since the establishment of the Han Dynasty, there has never been such a scene for generals who have conquered foreign countries.
Now Chen Tang broke the law because what he said was wrong, and he has been in jail for a long time. He has not been able to be sentenced for a long time. The law enforcement officials want to use Dapi's criminal law against him.
In the past, Bai Qi was the general of the Qin State. He captured the capital of Ying in the south and killed Tongkuo in the north. Because of a small mistake, he was killed by Du You. The people of Qin mourned for him and all of them shed tears.
Now Chen Tang personally carries weapons and fights thousands of miles away with bloodshed. He sacrifices his military exploits to the ancestral temple and reports to heaven. All warriors admire his integrity.
There is no great sin in committing a sin because of telling something.
"Book of Zhou" says: If you keep in mind the merits of others and forget the faults of others, you will be fit to be a monarch.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
夫犬马有劳于人，尚加帷盖之报，况国之功臣者哉！
窃恐陛下忽于鼙鼓之声，不察《周书》之意，而忘帷盖之施，庸臣遇汤，卒从吏议，使百姓介然有秦民之恨，非所以厉死难之臣也。
书奏，天子出汤，夺爵为士伍。
后数岁，西域都护段会宗为乌孙兵所围，驿骑上书，愿发城郭敦煌兵以自救。
丞相王商、大将军王凤及百僚议数日不决。
凤言： 汤多筹策，习外国事，可问。
上召汤见宣室。
汤击郅支时中塞病，两臂不诎申。
汤入见，有诏毋拜，示以会宗奏。
汤辞谢，曰： 将相九卿皆贤材通明，小臣罢癃，不足以策大事。
上曰： 国家有急，君其毋让。
对曰： 臣以为此必无可忧也。
上曰： 何以言之？
translation: 
Besides, if dogs and horses work hard for people, they can still get shacks built for them in return, not to mention the meritorious officials of the country!
Privately, I worry that your Majesty has ignored the sound of the military drums, failed to understand the meaning of the "Book of Zhou", and forgotten the kindness of building a shack, treated Chen Tang as a mediocre minister, and finally obeyed the officials' decision. Letting the people also have the resentment of the people of Qin is not a way to spur ministers who risk their lives.
After the memorial was submitted, the emperor released Chen Tang, revoked his title and became an ordinary soldier.
A few years later, Duan Huizong, the protector of the Western Regions, was surrounded by the Wusun army. People from the post station came on horseback to report, hoping to send troops from countries with towns in the Western Regions and Dunhuang troops to rescue them.
Prime Minister Wang Shang, General Wang Feng and hundreds of officials discussed the matter for several days with no result.
Wang Feng said: "Chen Tang is very good at planning and familiar with foreign situations. You can call him to ask."
The emperor summoned Chen Tang in the announcement room.
Chen Tang contracted typhoid fever when he was attacking Chanyu Zhizhi and could not bend his arms.
Chen Tang went in to see him, and was told by an edict that he should not kneel down and show Duan Huizong's memorial to him.
Chen Tang said: "The generals, ministers and nine ministers are all talented and well-versed in affairs. The junior ministers are weak and sick, and are not qualified to plan major events."
The emperor said: If the country is in urgent need, you should not give in.
Chen Tang replied: I think this matter must not be cause for concern.
The emperor asked: Why do you say that?


Chunk 22: 
original: 
汤曰： 夫胡兵五而当汉兵一，何者？
兵刃朴钝，弓弩不利。
今闻颇得汉巧，然犹三而当一。
又兵法曰 客倍而主人半然后敌 ，今围会宗者人众不足以胜会宗，唯陛下勿忧！
且兵轻行五十里，重行三十里，今会宗欲发城郭敦煌，历时乃至，所谓报仇之兵，非救急之用也！
上曰： 奈何？
其解可必乎？度何时解？
汤知乌孙瓦合，不能久攻，故事不过数日。因对曰： 已解矣！
诎指计其日，曰： 不出五日，当有吉语闻。
居四日，军书到，言已解。
大将军凤奏以为从事中郎，莫府事一决于汤。
汤明法令，善因事为势，纳说多从。
常受人金钱作章奏，卒以此败。
初，汤与将作大匠解万年相善。
translation: 
Chen Tang said: It takes five Hu soldiers to equal one Han soldier. Why?
Because the Hu people's weapons were primitive and not sharp, their bows and arrows were not sharp.
Now I heard that they have learned many skills from the Han people, but it still takes three people to fight against one Han soldier.
There is also a saying in the Art of War: The enemy must have half as many troops as the host before they can attack him. The number of people surrounding Duan Huizong now is not enough to defeat him. Please don't worry, Your Majesty!
Moreover, the army can travel fifty miles a day with light equipment, but can only travel thirty miles with heavy loads. Now Duan Huizong wants to mobilize the troops from countries with towns in the Western Regions and Dunhuang, and it will take a long time to arrive. This is the so-called revenge army, and it cannot be used in emergencies.
The emperor said: What should we do?
Is relief certain? When will the siege be released?
Chen Tang knew that the Wusun army was a mob and could not attack for a long time. In the past, such things could only last a few days, so he replied: The siege has been relieved!
He counted the days on his fingers and said, "In no more than five days, we will hear the good news."
Four days later, a military letter arrived stating that the siege had been lifted.
The general Wang Feng sent a memorial to appoint him as the chief minister, and Chen Tang was responsible for handling all affairs in the shogunate.
Chen Tang knew the law clearly and was good at analyzing the situation according to the situation. Most of his suggestions were adopted.
Chen Tang often accepted money from others to draft memorials for others, and was eventually dismissed because of this.
At the beginning, Chen Tang and General Xie Wannian were friendly.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
自元帝时，渭陵不复徙民起邑。
成帝起初陵，数年后，乐霸陵曲亭南，更营之。
万年与汤议，以为： 武帝时工杨光以所作数可意，自致将作大匠，及大司农、中丞耿寿昌造杜陵赐爵关内侯，将作大匠乘马延年以劳苦秩中二千石；今作初陵而营起邑居，成大功，万年亦当蒙重赏。
子公妻家在长安，儿子生长长安，不乐东方，宜求徙，可得赐田宅，俱善。
汤心利之，即上封事言： 初陵，京师之地，最为肥美，可立一县。
天下民不徙诸陵三十余岁矣，关东富人益众，多规良田，役使贫民，可徙初陵，以强京师，衰弱诸侯，又使中家以下得均贫富，汤愿与妻子家属徙初陵，为天下先。
于是天子从其计，果起昌陵邑，后徙内郡国民。
万年自诡三年可成，后卒不就，群臣多言其不便者。
下有司议，皆曰： 昌陵因卑为高，积土为山，度便房犹在平地上，客土之中不保幽冥之灵，浅外不固，卒徒工庸以巨万数，至然脂火夜作，取土东山，且与谷同贾。
作治数年，天下遍被其劳，国家罢敝，府臧空虚，下至众庶，熬熬苦之。
故陵因天性，据真土，处势高敞，旁近祖考，前又已有十年功绪，宜还复故陵，勿徙民。
translation: 
Since the time of Emperor Yuan, no more people have migrated to build settlements in the Weiling area.
Emperor Cheng initially built the mausoleum here. A few years later, he liked the place south of Baling Qu Pavilion and rebuilt it again.
Xie Wannian and Chen Tang discussed the matter and believed that during the reign of Emperor Wu, the craftsman Yang Guang satisfied the emperor several times with his construction, and he got the position of the general master craftsman.
The father-in-law's wife lives in Chang'an, and his son also grew up in Chang'an. If he doesn't like the east, he should ask for a move to get a land and house as a reward. This will be beneficial.
Chen Tang thought this was profitable, so he sealed the memorial and presented it to the emperor, saying: The tombs to be initially built are in the capital area, which is the most fertile and beautiful place, and a county can be established.
It has been more than thirty years since the people of the world moved to various mausoleums. There are more and more rich people in Guandong, occupying a lot of good land, driving the poor people, and moving them to the place where the tombs are initially built. This can be used to strengthen the capital, weaken the princes, and make people from middle-class families and below evenly rich and poor. Chen Tang is willing to move to Chuling area with his wife, children and family members to lead the world.
So the emperor followed his plan, and as expected, he first built residential areas in Changling, and then moved the people from inland counties.
Xie Wannian himself proposed that it would take three years to complete the project, but later it was not completed. Most of the ministers said that it was not appropriate to build a city in a package.
The emperor referred the matter to the relevant officials for discussion, and they all said: The Changling project is to fill up the low land and build a mountain with soil. It is estimated that the toilet is still on the flat ground. The transported soil cannot protect the souls in the underworld. If the soil is shallow, it will not be strong on the outside. Tens of thousands of labor are wasted in vain. They even work at night with a fat fire. Transporting soil to Dongshan will be as expensive as the price of grain.
The project has been going on for several years, and everyone in the world has been tired, the country is exhausted, the national treasury is empty, and even the common people are miserable.
The old mausoleum is based on the natural terrain and the original land. The terrain is high and spacious, and it is close to the ancestors. There have been ten years of construction before. The old mausoleum should be rebuilt and the people should not be relocated.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
上乃下诏罢昌陵，语在《成纪》。
丞相、御史请废昌陵邑中室，奏未下，人以问汤： 第宅不彻，得毋复发徙？
汤曰： 县官且顺听群臣言，犹且复发徙之也。
时，成都侯商新为大司马卫将军辅政，素不善汤。
商闻此语，白汤惑众，下狱治，按验诸所犯。
汤前为骑都尉王莽上书言： 父早死，独不封，母明君共养皇太后，尤劳苦，宜封。
竟为新都侯。
后皇太后同母弟苟参为水衡都尉，死，子伋为侍中，参妻欲为伋求封，汤受其金五十斤，许为求比上奏。
弘农太守张匡坐臧百万以上，狡猾不道，有诏即讯，恐下狱，使人报汤。
汤为讼罪，得逾冬月，许射钱二百万，皆此类也。
事在赦前。
后东莱郡黑龙冬出，人以问汤，汤曰： 是所谓玄门开。
translation: 
The emperor issued an edict to stop the construction of Changling. This incident was recorded in the "Chronicle of the Emperor".
The prime minister and the censor requested that the newly built residences in the Changling area be abolished, but the petition was not approved. Someone asked Chen Tang: If the residences are not demolished, will there be further relocation?
Chen Tang said: The emperor will listen to what the ministers say for the time being. He will still move again when the time comes.
At that time, Shangxin, the Marquis of Chengdu, was appointed as the assistant to General Sima Wei in political affairs. He usually disliked Chen Tang.
After Wang Shang heard what Chen Tang said, he reported to the emperor that Chen Tang had confused the masses and was put into a prison cell to be punished and examined for various crimes he had committed.
Chen Tang once wrote a letter on behalf of the Cavalry Captain Wang Mang, saying: My father died prematurely, but he did not get a fief. My mother, Mingjun, supported the Empress Dowager, and she worked very hard, so she should be granted a title.
He was actually named the new capital lord.
Later, the Empress Dowager's brother Gou Shen served as the captain of Shuiheng. After his death, his son Gou Ji became the minister. Gou Shen's wife planned to obtain a fief for Gou Ji. Chen Tang accepted the fifty kilograms of gold she gave and agreed to file a memorial for him according to the old practice.
Zhang Kuang, the prefect of Hongnong, embezzled more than one million yuan and was cunning and unscrupulous. He ordered an immediate interrogation. He was afraid of going to jail, so he sent someone to tell Chen Tang.
Chen Dang defended him and agreed to wait until the winter, and he was promised two million as a reward. It was all this kind of thing.
These things were before the amnesty.
Later, a black dragon appeared in Shulai County in winter. Someone asked Chen Tang, and Chen Tang said: This is the so-called Taoist opening.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
微行数出，出入不时，故龙以非时出也。
又言当复发徙，传相语者十余人。
丞相御史奏： 汤惑众不道，妄称诈归异于上，非所宜言，大不敬。
廷尉增寿议，以为： 不道无正法，以所犯剧易为罪，臣下承用失其中，故移狱廷尉，无比者先以闻，所以正刑罚，重人命也。
明主哀悯百姓，下制书罢昌陵勿徙吏民，已申布。
汤妄以意相谓且复发徙，虽颇惊动，所流行者少，百姓不为变，不可谓惑众。
汤称诈，虚设不然之事，非所宜言，大不敬也。
制曰： 廷尉增寿当是。
汤前有讨郅支单于功，其免汤为庶人，徙边。
translation: 
The emperor traveled in plain clothes several times, but he came and went at the wrong time, so the dragon appeared at the wrong time.
It was also said that the migration was about to start again, and more than ten people spread the word to each other.
The Prime Minister and the Censor impeached Chen Tang for misleading the public and falsely claiming that he attributed the vision to the Emperor. This was not what he should have said, and he had committed a crime of great disrespect.
Tingwei went to Zengshou to make a review. He believed that there was no proper law for punishing the unjust. He punished crimes according to the seriousness of the crime committed. However, his subordinates often used this method but often misjudged the crime. Therefore, the case was brought to Tingwei for trial. There was no precedent to refer to and the matter was reported to the emperor first. This was to correct the punishment and make human life more important.
The Ming Emperor took pity on the people and issued the Shao Order to stop the construction of Changling and not to relocate officials and people. The edict had already been issued.
Chen Tang arbitrarily told others about his conjecture that he would migrate again. Although he was greatly alarmed, the words did not spread widely and there was no chaos among the people, so it cannot be said that he confused everyone.
Chen Tang committed a crime of disrespect by spreading rumors and assuming things that were not true and not what he should have said.
The emperor issued an order saying: Tingwei Zhao Zengshou's review is correct.
Chen Tang had made great achievements in conquering the Zhizhi Chanyu in the past, so he was demoted to a commoner and sent to the frontier.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
又曰： 故将作大匠万年佞邪不忠，妄为巧诈，多赋敛，烦繇役，兴卒暴之作，卒徒蒙辜，死者连属，毒流众庶，海内怨望。虽蒙赦令，不宜居京师。
于是汤与万年俱徙敦煌。
久之，敦煌太守奏： 汤前亲诛郅支单于，威行外国，不宜近边塞。
诏徙安定。
议郎耿育上书言便宜，因冤讼汤曰； 延寿、汤为圣汉扬钩深致远之威，雪国家累年之耻，讨绝域不羁之君，系万里难制之虏，岂有比哉！
先帝嘉之，仍下明诏，宣著其功，改年垂历，传之无穷。
应是，南郡献白虎，边陲无警备。
会先帝寝疾，然犹垂意不忘，数使尚书责问丞相，趣立其功。
独丞相匡衡排而不予，封延寿、汤数百户，此功臣战士所以失望也。
孝成皇帝承建业之基，乘征伐之威，兵革不动，国家无事，而大臣倾邪，谗佞在朝，曾不深惟本末之难，以防未然之戒，欲专主威，排妒有功，使汤块然被冤拘囚，不能自明，卒以无罪，老弃敦煌，正当西域通道，令威名折冲之臣旅踵及身，复为郅支遗虏所笑，诚可悲也！
至今奉使外蛮者，未尝不陈郅支之诛以扬汉国之盛。
夫援人之功以惧敌，弃人之身以快谗，岂不痛哉！
translation: 
He also ordered: "The former general who was a great craftsman was unfaithful and unfaithful. He made random lies, increased taxes, levied corvees, and hastily built projects, causing the people to suffer in vain. People died one after another, poison spread among the people, and the people in the country were dissatisfied. Although he was pardoned, he was not suitable to live in the capital."
So Chen Tang and Xie Wannian were sent to Dunhuang together.
After a long time, the governor of Dunhuang wrote a letter saying: Chen Tang personally killed Yingzhi Chanyu before, and he has great prestige in foreign countries, so it is not suitable to approach the frontier fortress.
The emperor ordered him to be moved to Anding.
Yi Lang Geng directly stated the things that were beneficial to the country, and by the way, he defended Chen Tang and said: Gan Yanshou and Chen Tang showed the great Han Dynasty the power of hooking enemies from deep and inviting distant countries. They wiped away the country's many years of shame, conquered the unruly monarchs in remote areas, and captured enemies that were difficult to subdue thousands of miles away. Is there any greater merit than this?
The late emperor commended them, issued wise edicts several times, publicized their merits, changed their reign names, recorded their merits, and passed them on endlessly.
Correspondingly, Nanjun contributed white tigers, and the frontier fortress was safe and sound.
When the late emperor was ill in bed, he still paid attention to them and did not forget them. He sent ministers several times to question the prime minister and immediately rewarded them for their merits.
Only Prime Minister Kuang Heng excluded and refused to record merit, and only granted a few hundred households to Gan Yanshou and Chen Tang. This was the reason why meritorious ministers and soldiers were disappointed.
Emperor Xiaocheng inherited the established career foundation and took advantage of the power of conquests. There was no war and the country was safe and sound. However, the ministers were evil and dishonest, and there were flattering and cunning people in the court. They did not think deeply about the root cause of the trouble, and used it to prevent things that had not yet formed. They wanted to monopolize the majesty of the monarch and crowd out jealousy. As a man of meritorious deeds, Chen Tang was alone and unjustly imprisoned, unable to defend himself. Finally, he was innocent and was abandoned in Dunhuang in his old age. It happened to be on the passage to and from the Western Regions. It was so sad that a minister whose reputation made the enemy flee could suffer disaster in the blink of an eye, and was ridiculed by the remaining enemy prisoners of Zhizhi!
Up to now, all those who have been sent as envoys to foreign barbarians have told the story of Zhi Zhi’s execution to promote the strength of the Han Dynasty.
How can it not be sad to use the merits of others to threaten enemies and to abandon others to make those who speak ill of them happy?


Chunk 27: 
original: 
且安不忘危，盛必虑衰，今国家素无文帝累年节俭富饶之畜，又无武帝荐延枭俊禽敌之臣，独有一陈汤耳！
假使异世不及陛下，尚望国家追录其功，封表其墓，以劝后进也。
汤幸得身当圣世，功曾未久，反听邪臣鞭逐斥远，使亡逃分窜，死无处所。
远览之士，莫不计度，以为汤功累世不可及，而汤过人情所有，汤尚如此，虽复破绝筋骨，暴露形骸，犹复制于唇舌，为嫉妒之臣所系虏耳。
此臣所以为国家尤戚戚也。
书奏，天子还汤，卒于长安。
死后数年，王莽为安汉公秉政，既内德汤旧恩，又欲谄皇太后，以讨郅支功尊元帝庙称高宗。
以汤、延寿前功大赏薄，及候丞杜勋不赏，乃益封延寿孙迁千六百户，追谥汤曰破胡壮侯，封汤子冯为破胡侯，勋为讨狄侯。
translation: 
Moreover, when you are in peace, don't forget about danger, and when you are strong, think about decline. Now the country usually does not have the savings that Emperor Wen made through years of frugality that made the country rich, nor does it have the brave and resourceful ministers who captured the enemy who were recommended and appointed by Emperor Wu. There is only Chen Tang!
Even if Chen Tang's death does not reach His Majesty's time, I still hope that the country will increase his contribution and erect a monument on his tomb to encourage people in the future.
Chen Tang was fortunate enough to live in the current era of sage, and his achievements in establishing the country did not last long. Instead, he allowed the evil ministers to push him away, causing him to flee into exile and die without a burial place.
People with far-sighted ideas all consider that Chen Tang's achievements have not been matched by anyone for several generations, and the crimes committed by Chen Tang are all human beings. If Chen Tang is like this, even if someone sheds blood and sacrifices for the country and throws his body on the battlefield, he will still be controlled by his tongue and captured by jealous ministers.
This is the reason why I feel deeply worried about the country.
After the memorial was handed over, the emperor asked Chen Tang to come back, and finally died in Chang'an.
A few years after Chen Tang's death, Wang Mang became the Duke of Anhan and took charge of the government. In his heart, he was grateful for Chen Tang's old kindness and wanted to please the empress dowager, so he honored Emperor Yuan's temple as Gaozong for his contribution to conquering Zhizhi.
In addition, because Chen Tang and Gan Yanshou were not rewarded for their merits in the past, and Du Xun, the prime minister, was not rewarded at all, Gan Yanshou's grandson Gan Qian was granted the title of 1,600 households, Chen Tang was given the additional title of Pohu Zhuanghou, Chen Tang's son Chen Feng was granted the title of Pohuhou, and Du Xun was granted the title of Tuidihou.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
段会宗字子孙，天水上邽人也。
竟宁中，以杜陵令五府举为西域都护、骑都尉、光禄大夫。西域敬其威信。
三岁，更尽还，拜为沛郡太守。
以单于当朝，徙为雁门太守。
数年，坐法免。
西域诸国上书愿得会宗，阳朔中复为都护。
会宗为人好大节，矜功名，与谷永相友善。
谷永闵其老复远出，予书戒曰： 足下以柔远之令德，复典都护之重职，甚休甚休！
若子之材，可优游都城而取卿相，何必勒功昆山之仄，总领百蛮，怀柔殊俗？
子之所长，愚无以喻。
虽然，朋友以言赠行，敢不略意。
translation: 
Duan Huizong, courtesy name Zisong, was a native of Gui, Tianshui.
In the middle of Jingning's reign, he was recommended by the Five Governments as the Protector of the Western Regions and the Cavalry Commander, Guanglu Guanglu, with the Du Ling Order. People in the Western Regions respected his prestige and credibility.
Three years later, when his term of office expired, he returned to the capital and was appointed the governor of Pei County.
Because Shanyu should come to court, he was appointed as the governor of Yanmen.
A few years later, Duan Huizong was dismissed from office for breaking the law.
Countries in the Western Regions wrote letters expressing their wish to appoint Duan Huizong, and in the middle of the year, Yangshuo was appointed Protector-General.
Duan Huizong was a man of great integrity and valued fame, and he had a good friendship with Gu Yong.
Gu Yong felt pity that Duan Huizong was old and had gone to a distant place to serve as an official, so he wrote to him to advise him: "It is very good to be able to appease the virtue of a distant place and to assume the important position of Protector again!"
With your talents, you can easily obtain the position of prime minister in the capital. Why do you need to go to the side of Kunshan to establish achievements, command hundreds of barbarians, and appease people in foreign lands?
You think deeply, and I have nothing to tell you originally.
Even so, how dare you not say a little bit about what you mean when giving parting words to friends.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
方今汉德隆盛，远人宾服，傅、郑、甘、陈之功没齿不可复见，愿吾子因循旧贯，毋求奇功，终更亟还，亦足以复雁门之踦，万里之外以身为本。
愿详思愚言。
会宗既出，诸国遣子弟郊迎。
小昆弥安日前为会宗所立，德之，欲往谒，诸翕侯止不听，遂至龟兹谒。
城郭甚亲附。
康居太子保苏匿率众万余人欲降，会宗奏状，汉遣卫司马逢迎。
会宗发戊己校尉兵随司马受降。
司马畏其众，欲令降者皆自缚，保苏匿怨望，举众亡去。
会宗更尽还，以擅发戊己校尉之兵乏兴，有诏赎论。
拜为金城太守，以病免。
岁余，小昆弥为国民所杀，诸翕侯大乱。
translation: 
Now the benevolence of the Han Dynasty is flourishing, and people from remote areas are coming to surrender. The achievements of Fu, Zheng, Gan, and Chen will never happen again in their lifetime. I hope that my friend you will follow the old practice and not pursue extraordinary achievements. Returning when your term of office is over will be enough to offset the misfortune of Yanmen. Thousands of miles away should put the body first. I hope you will consider my words carefully.
Duan Huizong has already left the border.
All the nations sent their sons to the outskirts of the city to meet him.
Xiao Wusun Wang An said that Duan Huizong made him king in the past. He was grateful for his kindness and planned to visit him. However, the princes stopped him from going, but he refused to listen, so he went to Qiuci to visit him.
All the countries with city walls are close to him and obey him.
Prince Kangju Baosunni led more than 10,000 people and wanted to surrender. Duan Huizong reported the situation and the Han Dynasty sent Wei Sima to meet him.
Duan Huizong dispatched Wu Ji's army to accompany Sima to accept the surrender.
Sima was afraid that there would be too many people surrendering, so he planned to ask those who surrendered to be tied up. Baosunni then became resentful and led everyone to escape.
When Huizong returned after his term expired, he sent Wu Ji's troops without authorization, which delayed the military operation. The emperor went down to Shao to make up for the crime.
He was appointed as the prefect of Jincheng, but was dismissed because of illness.
More than a year later, King Xiao Wusun was killed by his own people, and the Linghous broke into chaos.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
征会宗为左曹中郎将、光禄大夫，使安辑乌孙，立小昆弥兄末振将，定其国而还。
明年，末振将杀大昆弥，会病死，汉恨诛不加。
元延中，复遣会宗发戊己校尉诸国兵，即诛末振将太子番丘。
会宗恐大兵入乌孙，惊番丘，亡逃不可得，即留所发兵垫娄地，选精兵三十弩，径至昆弥所在，召番丘，责以： 末振将骨肉相杀，杀汉公主子孙，未伏诛而死，使者受诏诛番丘。
即手剑击杀番丘。
官属以下惊恐，驰归。
小昆弥乌犁靡者，末振将兄子也，勒兵数千骑围会宗，会宗为言来诛之意： 今围守杀我，如取汉牛一毛耳。
宛王郅支头县槁街，乌孙所知也。
昆弥以下服，曰： 末振将负汉，诛其子可也，独不可告我，令饮食之邪？
会宗曰： 豫告昆弥，逃匿之，为大罪。
即饮食以付我，伤骨肉恩，故不先告。
昆弥以下号泣罢去。
会宗还奏事，公卿议会宗权得便宜，以轻兵深入乌孙，即诛番丘。宣明国威，宜加重赏。
translation: 
The emperor conscripted Duan Huizong as Zuo Cao Zhonglang, General Guanglu, and asked him to pacify the Wusun Kingdom. He appointed Mo Zhen, the younger brother of King Xiao Wusun, as king. He stabilized his country and returned.
The next year, Mo Zhenjiang killed King Wusun, and then he died of illness. The Han Dynasty regretted that it could not kill him personally.
In the middle of the Yuanyan year, Duan Huizong was sent to mobilize Wuji Xiaowei and the troops from various countries to kill the crown prince Fanqiu who was the last general.
Duan Huizong was afraid that after the large army entered the Wusun Kingdom, Fanqiu would be alarmed and that he would not be captured after he escaped, so he left the army he sent in Dianlou and selected thirty capable crossbow-wielding soldiers.
He took the sword with his hand and killed Fanqiu.
Fanqiu's officials and subordinates were frightened and fled back on horseback.
Xiao Wusun Wang Niao Limi, the son of Mo Zhenjiang's brother, led thousands of cavalry to surround Duan Huizong. Duan Huizong told them his intention to kill Fanqiu: Now you surround me and kill me, it's like taking a hair from a Han ox.
The heads of King Wan and Zhizhi are hanging in Guo Street, and you Wusun know this.
The people below King Wusun were frightened and said: "General Mo Zhen has betrayed the Han Dynasty, so it is okay to kill his son." Can't you tell us first so that we can provide him with his last meal?
Duan Huizong said: If you tell King Wusun in advance and let Fanqiu escape and hide, you will commit a serious crime.
If I provided him with food and then handed it over to me, it would be a disservice to my family members, so I didn't inform him in advance.
King Wusun and his men wept and withdrew their troops.
Duan Huizong went back to report the situation. The ministers discussed that Duan Huizong should act according to the situation and use a small force to go deep into the Wusun Kingdom and kill Fanqiu. This demonstrated the country's prestige and should be rewarded heavily.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
天子赐会宗爵关内侯，黄金百斤。
是时，小昆弥季父卑爰疐拥众欲害昆弥，汉复遣会宗使安辑，与都护孙建并力。
明年，会宗病死乌孙中，年七十五矣，城郭诸国为发丧立祠焉。
赞曰：自元狩之际，张骞始通西域，至于地节，郑吉建都护之号，讫王莽世，凡十八人，皆以勇略选，然其有功迹者具此。
廉褒以恩信称，郭舜以廉平著，孙建用威重显，其余无称焉。
陈汤傥，不自收敛，卒用困穷，议者闵之，故备列云。
translation: 
The emperor gave Duan Huizong the title of Marquis of Guannei and one hundred catties of gold.
At this time, Bei Yuanxu, the younger brother of King Wusun's father, led everyone to harm King Wusun. The Han Dynasty sent Duan Huizong there to work with Sun Jian, the protector, to appease him.
The next year, Duan Huizong died of illness in Wusun Kingdom at the age of seventy-five. All countries in the city mourned him and built ancestral halls for him.
Zan said: From the Yuanshou period, Zhang Qian began to communicate with the Western Regions. In the Dijie period, Zheng Ji established the title of Protector. Until the era of Wang Mang, there were 18 people in total. They were all elected for their bravery and strategy. However, those who had meritorious deeds among them are all recorded here.
Lian Guo was praised for his kindness and trust, Guo Shun was famous for his honesty and fairness, Sun Jian was famous for his dignity in handling affairs, and the rest of them had nothing to praise.
Chen Tang behaved unruly and did not restrain himself, and finally fell into hardship and embarrassment. The commentators pitied him, so they also listed him here.


