Chunk 0: 
original: 
武帝中天监元年夏四月丙寅，高祖即皇帝位于南郊。
设坛柴燎，告类于天曰： 皇帝臣衍，敢用玄牡，昭告于皇天后帝：齐氏以历运斯既，否终则亨，钦若天应，以命于衍。
夫任是司牧，惟能是授；天命不于常，帝王非一族。
唐谢虞受，汉替魏升，爰及晋、宋，宪章在昔。
咸以君德驭四海，元功子万姓，故能大庇氓黎，光宅区宇。
齐代云季，世主昏凶，狡焉群慝，是崇是长，肆厥奸回暴乱，以播虐于我有邦，俾溥天惴惴，将坠于深壑。
九服八荒之内，连率岳牧之君，蹶角顿颡，匡救无术，卧薪待然，援天靡诉。
衍投袂星言，摧锋万里，厉其挂冠之情，用拯兆民之切。
衔胆誓众，覆锐屠坚，建立人主，克剪昏乱。
遂因时来，宰司邦国，济民康世，实有厥劳。
而晷纬呈祥，川岳效祉，朝夕坰牧，日月郊畿。
代终之符既显，革运之期已萃，殊俗百蛮，重译献款，人神远迩，罔不和会。
于是群公卿士，咸致厥诚，并以皇乾降命，难以谦拒。
齐帝脱屣万邦，授以神器。
衍自惟匪德，辞不获许。仰迫上玄之眷，俯惟亿兆之心，宸极不可久旷，民神不可乏主，遂藉乐推，膺此嘉祚。
以兹寡薄，临御万方，顾求夙志，永言祗惕。
敬简元辰，恭兹大礼，升坛受禅，告类上帝，克播休祉，以弘盛烈，式传厥后，用永保于我有梁。
惟明灵是飨。
礼毕，备法驾即建康宫，临太极前殿。
translation: 
On Bingyin in the summer of the first year of Tianjian, Emperor Gaozu ascended the throne in the southern suburbs.
An altar was set up to burn firewood and a sacrifice was made to inform the heaven: Xiao Yan, a minister of the emperor, took the liberty of sacrificing a black bull to clearly inform the emperor and God: The movement of the celestial phenomena shows that the Qi family has exhausted its energy and misfortune. Prosperity is about to come. In obedience to heaven's inspiration, I have been given the order to Xiao Yan.
To establish a monarch, only those who are worthy are given; destiny is not static, and emperors do not belong to one surname or clan.
Yaoxun of the Tang Dynasty ordered Yu Shun to take over, and the Han Dynasty declined and the Wei Dynasty rose, until the Shu Jin Dynasty and the Liu Song Dynasty followed the example of the past.
They all rule the country with the kindness of the Lord, and take nurturing the people as their highest achievement. Therefore, they can greatly protect the people and conquer the world.
At the end of the Qi Dynasty, the monarch was confused and cruel, and a group of greedy and deceitful traitors were praised and allowed to take power. They indulged in their evil and violent rebellion, wreaking havoc on our country, making the world fearful and uneasy, and would fall into the abyss.
All over the country, local governors were appointed as frontier officials. They knelt down and knelt down with their foreheads knocked on the ground. They were unable to correct the situation and lay down on firewood to be burned. They blamed everyone and refused to appeal.
I was excited to rush to the rescue, marched thousands of miles, and used my passion to resign my job to save the people's crisis.
He worked hard and gathered the crowd to swear an oath, wiped out powerful enemies, massacred and raped them, established a new monarch, and eradicated the confused old monarch.
So he relied on the running time to take charge of the country. It is indeed a great contribution to save the people in such a time-consuming manner.
Moreover, the sun and stars show auspiciousness, and the mountains and rivers show blessings, often in the wilderness and often in the suburbs.
The signs of replacing the old dynasty have appeared, and the period of change in the national destiny has arrived. Ethnic minorities with different customs have come to submit through translation, and they are fascinated by the people far and near, and they all meet happily.
So all the officials and ministers expressed their sincerity and believed that the emperor's decree was too difficult to humbly refuse.
Chang Yi no longer cared about his country and was granted the throne.
I have no virtue in my own mind, and my resignation is not allowed. I am forced by the favor of the emperor and heaven, and I am concerned about the wishes of the people. The throne cannot be empty for a long time, and the gods of the people cannot be without a master. Therefore, I rely on the court to entrust the world's willing support and inherit the blessings of being an emperor.
Use my meager talents and virtues to rule all nations, pursue my ordinary aspirations, and always be cautious and fearful in my heart.
Choose a good time, pay respectful tributes, go to the altar to receive Zen, offer sacrifices to God, spread welfare, promote great achievements, and pass on the throne to your descendants, so as to protect me forever.
Only holy gods can enjoy their sacrifices.
After the ceremony, the Dharma driver was equipped and driven to Jiankang Palace and to the front hall of Tai Chi.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
诏曰： 五精递袭，皇王所以受命；四海乐推，殷、周所以改物。
虽禅代相舛，遭会异时，而微明迭用，其流远矣。
莫不振民育德，光被黎元。
朕以寡暗，命不先后，宁济之功，属当期运，乘此时来，因心万物，遂振厥弛维，大造区夏，永言前踪，义均惭德。
齐氏以代终有征，历数云改，钦若前载，集大命于朕躬。
顾惟菲德，辞不获命，寅畏上灵，用膺景业。
执禋柴之礼，当与能之祚，继迹百王，君临四海，若涉大川，罔知攸济。
洪基初兆，万品权舆，思俾庆泽，覃被率土。
可大赦天下。
改齐中兴二年为天监元年。
赐民爵二级；文武加位二等；鳏寡孤独不能自存者，人谷五斛。
逋布、口钱、宿债勿复收。
其犯乡论清议，赃污淫盗，一皆荡涤，洗除前注，与之更始。
封齐帝为巴陵王，全食一郡。
载天子旌旗，乘五时副车。
行齐正朔。
郊祀天地，礼乐制度，皆用齐典。
齐宣德皇后为齐文帝妃，齐后王氏为巴陵王妃。
诏曰： 兴运升降，前代旧章。
齐世王侯封爵，悉皆降省。
其有效著艰难者，别有后命。
惟宋汝阴王不在除例。
又诏曰： 大运肇升，嘉庆惟始，劫贼余口没在台府者，悉可蠲放。
诸流徙之家，并听还本。
追尊皇考为文皇帝，庙曰太祖；皇妣为献皇后。
追谥妃郗氏为德皇后。
translation: 
The edict said: The five spirits inherited each other, and the ancient sage kings were ordered to do so; the world was willing to support them, and the Yin and Zhou dynasties changed dynasties.
Although the Zen dynasty was different and the circumstances were different, they all knew the principles of Youxian and achieved remarkable results, and their benevolent policies spread far and wide.
All help the people to cultivate virtue, and virtue spreads to the people.
My knowledge is rudimentary and I don't know the truth, but my destiny is not in order. I am lucky enough to stabilize and help the economy. I take advantage of the opportunity and comply with everyone's wishes. I save the neglected discipline and make great contributions to China. I should feel guilty in remembering the relics of my predecessors.
The Qi family has signs of the dynasty being replaced, indicating that the order of imperial succession must be changed, respecting the allusions of the previous generation, and destiny gathering in me.
Reflect on your own shortcomings, refuse and refuse permission, fear God, and thus inherit great achievements.
He held the ceremony of burning firewood and raising smoke to offer sacrifices to heaven, acting as a king to recommend capable people, inheriting the traces of previous kings, and ruling the world, like crossing a big river and not knowing how to cross it.
At the beginning of the great cause, all things are reborn, and I want the emperor's favor to spread all over the world.
You can grant amnesty to the world.
The second year of Zhongxing in Southern Qi was changed to the first year of Tianjian.
Those who have made meritorious services among the people will be given a second-class title; civil and military officials will be given a second-class title; widows and widowers who are lonely and unable to stand on their own will be given five dendrobiums of grain each.
The arrears of rent, population tax, and old debts will no longer be collected.
Those who were not in line with the opinions of the villagers, and were charged with corruption, bribery, adultery, and theft were all cleared, their previous files were erased, and they were allowed to start over.
The emperor of Qi was granted the title of King Baling and enjoyed the rent of a county.
Set up the emperor's flag and ride on the fifth o'clock auxiliary car.
The calendar issued by the Southern Qi Dynasty will be followed.
The rituals and music system for worshiping heaven and earth in the suburbs are all based on the regulations of the Southern Qi Dynasty.
Queen Xuande of Southern Qi was changed to Princess Wen of Qi, and Queen Wang of Qi was changed to Princess Baling.
Shao Ling said: "The prosperity of fortune and the rise and fall of official titles are the old rules of the previous dynasties."
During the Southern Qi Dynasty, all the princes and princes who were ennobled had to have their title reduced and their enfeoffment removed.
Those who were of outstanding use in times of national calamity. There was another edict later.
Only King Ruyin of Song Dynasty was not demoted or exempted.
He also issued an edict: At the beginning of the national fortunes, when the auspicious and festive events have just begun, any remaining population of the robbers who have been confiscated by the government can be released without mercy.
All the exiled families were allowed to return to their homeland.
The deceased father's honorary title was added as Emperor Wen and his temple name was Taizu; his deceased mother was named Queen Xian.
The late concubine Xi was added as Queen De.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
追封兄太傅懿为长沙郡王，谥曰宣武；齐后军谘议敷为永阳郡王，谥曰昭；弟齐太常畅为衡阳郡王，谥曰宣；齐给事黄门侍郎融为桂阳郡王，谥曰简。
是日，诏封文武功臣新除车骑将军夏侯详等十五人为公侯，食邑各有差。
以弟中护军宏为扬州刺史，封为临川郡王；南徐州刺史秀安成郡王；雍州刺史伟建安郡王；左卫将军恢鄱阳郡王；荆州刺史憺始兴郡王。
丁卯，加领军将军王茂镇军将军。
以中书监王亮为尚书令、中军将军，相国左长史王莹为中书监、抚军将军，吏部尚书沈约为尚书仆射，长兼侍中范云为散骑常侍、吏部尚书。
诏曰： 宋氏以来，并恣淫侈，倾宫之富，遂盈数千。
推算五都，愁穷四海，并婴罹冤横，拘逼不一。
抚弦命管，良家不被蠲；织室绣房，幽厄犹见役。
弊国伤和，莫斯为甚。
凡后宫乐府，西解暴室，诸如此例，一皆放遣。
若衰老不能自存，官给廪食。
戊辰，车骑将军高句骊王高云进号车骑大将军。
镇东大将军百济王馀大进号征东大将军。
安西将军宕昌王梁弥进号镇西将军。
镇东大将军倭王武进号征东大将军。
镇西将军河南王吐谷浑休留代进号征西将军。
巴陵王薨于姑孰，追谥为齐和帝，终礼一依故事。
己巳，以光禄大夫张瑰为右光禄大夫。
庚午，镇南将军、江州刺史陈伯之进号征南将军。
诏曰： 观风省俗，哲后弘规；狩岳巡方，明王盛轨。
所以重华在上，五品聿修；文命肇基，四载斯履。
translation: 
His elder brother Xiao Yi, Tai Fu, was named the Prince of Changsha, with the title of Xuanwu; Xiao Fu, who consulted the army of the Southern Qi Dynasty, was named the Prince of Yongyang, with the title of Zhao; his younger brother Xiao Chang, Taichang of the Southern Qi Dynasty, was named the Prince of Hengyang, with the title of Mi Xuan; Xiao Rong, the minister of Huangmen of the Southern Qi Dynasty, was posthumously named the Prince of Guiyang, with the title of Jian.
On the same day, Shaoling granted the title of Duke to the new chariot and cavalry general Xia Houxiang, who was a great civil and military hero, and fifteen others. Shilu's fiefdoms varied.
He appointed his younger brother, Zhonghujun Xiao Hong, as the governor of Yangzhou and the title of Linchuan County Prince; Xiao Xiu, the governor of South Xuzhou, was granted the title of Ancheng County Prince; Xiao Weifeng, the governor of Yongzhou, was granted the title of Jian'an County Prince; Xiao Hui, the general of the left guard, was granted the title of Poyang County Prince; and Xiao Dan, the governor of Jingzhou, was granted the title of Shixing County Prince.
Ding Mao also awarded the leading general Wang Mao as the general of the town army.
Wang Liang, the eunuch of Zhongshu, was appointed as Shangshu Ling and General of the Central Army. Wang Ying, the chief minister of the left side of the Xiangguo, was appointed as the Superintendent of Zhongshu and General of Fujun. Shen Yue, the Minister of the Ministry of Personnel, was appointed as the Minister of Pushe. Fan Yun, the chief minister and the Minister of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, was appointed as the Changshi of Sanqi and the Minister of the Ministry of Personnel.
The edict said: Since the Song Dynasty, people have indulged in promiscuity and luxury, and there are thousands of wealthy people living in majestic palaces.
It is estimated that in the five major cities, worries spread all over the world, and those who were wronged and suffered misfortune suffered different persecutions.
Playing the strings of the piano and writing a pen, a good family will not be spared; a beautiful girl, the Weaver Girl, will still be used in distress.
There is nothing more serious than corrupting national politics and harming the harmony of heaven and earth.
All those who were escorted from the harem to the palace, such as this, will be released.
If they are old and unable to stand on their own, the public will provide them with food.
In Wuchen, Gao Yun, the chariot general and king of Gaoguli, was promoted to the title of chariot general.
King Yu Dajin of Baekje was promoted to the title of General Zhengshu.
Anxi General Dangchang Wang Liang Mija was promoted to the rank of General Zhenxi.
The Japanese King Wujin, the General of Zhendong, was promoted to the title of General of Zhengdong.
General Zhenxi, King Tuyuhun of Henan Province, stayed on his behalf and was promoted to an official title, and was named General Zhengxi.
When King Baling died in Gushu, he was given the additional title of Emperor Qihe, and all the farewell gifts followed precedents.
Jisi, appointed Dr. Guanglu Zhang Yu as Dr. You Guanglu.
In Gengwu, General Zhennan and Jiang Shi Chen Bozhi were promoted to the title of General Zhengnan.
The edict stated: Observing customs is the grand plan of a wise monarch; hunting in all directions is a beautiful example of a wise emperor.
Therefore, Yu and Shun were on top, inheriting and carrying forward the Five Constant Virtues of benevolence, righteousness, propriety, wisdom, and faith; Xia Yu established the foundation and patrolled by boat, cart, Tao, and stack.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
故能物色幽微，耳目屠钓，致王业于缉熙，被淳风于遐迩。
朕以寡薄，昧于治方，藉代终之运，当符命之重，取监前古，懔若驭朽。
思所以振民育德，去杀胜残，解网更张，置之仁寿；而明惭照远，智不周物，兼以岁之不易，未遑卜征，兴言夕惕，无忘鉴寐。
可分遣内侍，周省四方，观政听谣，访贤举滞。
其有田野不辟，狱讼无章，忘公殉私，侵渔是务者，悉随事以闻。
若怀宝迷邦，蕴奇待价，蓄响藏真，不求闻达，并依名腾奏，罔或遗隐。
使輶轩所届，如朕亲览焉。
又诏曰： 金作赎刑，有闻自昔，入缣以免，施于中世，民悦法行，莫尚乎此。
永言叔世，偷薄成风，婴愆入罪，厥涂匪一。
断弊之书，日缠于听览；钳钅犬之刑，岁积于牢犴。
死者不可复生，刑者无因自返，由此而望滋实，庸可致乎？
朕夕惕思治，念崇政术，斟酌前王，择其令典，有可以宪章邦国，罔不由之。
释愧心于四海，昭情素于万物。
俗伪日久，禁网弥繁。
汉文四百，邈焉已远。
虽省事清心，无忘日用，而委衔废策，事未获从。
可依周、汉旧典，有罪入赎，外详为条格，以时奏闻。
辛未，以中领军蔡道恭为司州刺史。
以新除谢沐县公萧宝义为巴陵王，以奉齐祀。
复南兰陵武进县，依前代之科。
征谢朏为左光禄大夫、开府仪同三司，何胤为右光禄大夫。
改南东海为兰陵郡。
translation: 
Therefore, being able to discern subtleties, scrutinize and understand despicable people, make the king's career glorious and the simplicity spread far and near.
I have little talent and no knowledge of the strategy of governing the country. I rely on the luck of replacing the old dynasty to shoulder the important task of the emperor. I follow the ancient methods and control the horse with fear like a rotten rope.
Think about how to help people cultivate virtue, implement benevolent policies that turn cruel people into good deeds and abolish punishment, liberate the net and change its course, and put the people into a situation where they are benevolent and live longer. However, observation cannot see far, wisdom cannot know things, and the years are difficult, so there is no time to divine the good or bad luck of the hunting patrol. Even until night, he still works tirelessly with fear, and does not dare to take off his clothes and sleep.
Internal servants can be dispatched separately to look around, observe political conditions and understand folk customs, and visit wise men to recommend talents that have not yet been selected.
Those who have fields but do not cultivate them, who do not clearly judge and handle lawsuits, who forget about public service and engage in favoritism and only know how to embezzle and make profits must report it anytime and anywhere.
If you have talents and virtues but do not use them for the country, if you have a unique talent and can wait for the time to act, if you store your reputation and true talents and are practical, and do not seek to be visible, all should be reported according to the name, and nothing should be omitted or hidden.
Let the envoys handle the affairs wherever they go, as if they were handled by me myself.
Shao Ling also said: It is said that using money to atone for sins originated from ancient times. It was implemented in the Middle Ages. The people were happy when the law was implemented. There is nothing better than this.
I lament that in the last days, being unkind has become a kind of trend, and breaking the prohibition is a crime, and the ways are different.
Documents of judgments and convictions are piled up in hearings every day; cases involving the use of pliers and torture instruments are piled up in prisons every year.
The dead cannot be resurrected, and those who have been punished have no way to return. Therefore, if we expect prosperity, can we achieve it?
I work tirelessly with fear until night, hoping to govern the world, considering and recommending political strategies, thinking about the previous kings, choosing their laws and charters, and following all those that can be used as the laws and regulations of the country.
The gate releases the shame and shame in the world, and reveals the true feelings to everyone.
The custom of fraud has been around for a long time, and the prohibitions and laws spread like a net have become more dense.
The four hundred laws and regulations of the Han Dynasty are already very far away.
Although he reduced his affairs and was calm and did not forget his daily application, it did contain useless policies and failed to follow them.
According to the old laws of Zhou Dynasty and Lianqiao, guilty people can pay money to atone for their sins. Officials in the foreign court can formulate detailed regulations and report them in time.
Xin Wei appointed Cai Daogong, the leader of the Central Military Commission, as the governor of Sizhou.
Xiao Yinyi, the Duke of Xiemu County, was newly granted the title of Dan Salt Worker to offer a fish as a sacrifice.
Restore Nanlanling Wujin County in accordance with the regulations of the previous generation.
The recruitment invitation keys were Dr. Zuo Guanglu and Kaifu Yitong, and He Yin was Dr. You Guanglu.
Change the word "Mese" to "Falling on the mainland".


Chunk 4: 
original: 
土断南徐州诸侨郡县。
癸酉，诏曰： 商俗甫移，遗风尚炽，下不上达，由来远矣。
升中驭索，增其懔然。
可于公车府谤木肺石傍各置一函。
若肉食莫言，山阿欲有横议，投谤木函。
若从我江、汉，功在可策，犀兕徒弊，龙蛇方县；次身才高妙，摈压莫通，怀傅、吕之术，抱屈、贾之叹，其理有皦然，受困包匦；夫大政侵小，豪门陵贱，四民已穷，九重莫达。
若欲自申，并可投肺石函。
甲戍，诏断远近上庆礼。
又诏曰： 礼闱文阁，宜率旧章，贵贱既位，各有差等，俯仰拜伏，以明王度，济济洋洋，具瞻斯在。
顷因多难，治纲弛落，官非积及，荣由幸至。
六军尸四品之职，青紫治白簿之劳。
振衣朝伍，长揖卿相，趋步广闼，并驱丞郎。
遂冠履倒错，珪甑莫辨。
静言疚怀，思返流弊。
且玩法惰官，动成逋弛，罚以常科，终未惩革。
夫槚楚申威，盖代断趾，笞捶有令，如或可从。
外详共平议，务尽厥理。
癸未，诏 相国府职吏，可依资劳度台；若职限已盈，所度之余，及骠骑府并可赐满。
闰月丁酉，以行宕昌王梁弥邕为安西将军、河凉二州刺史，正封宕昌王。
translation: 
The overseas Chinese who left Chenkui were abolished and established counties and counties, so that the overseas Chinese's residence registration was incorporated into the counties and counties where they lived.
Guiyou ordered: "The corruption custom in the Shang Dynasty has just changed, and the custom of sending people to stay is still strong. The subordinates are not as good as the superiors. It has been a long time."
Sacrifice to heaven and report that successfully governing the people is like controlling a horse with a rotten rope, deepening their sense of danger.
You can place a letter next to the slender wood and the lung stone in the bus house.
If the officials do not speak up, the people in the mountains and plains will want to criticize them. You can submit your advice to Mu Han.
If you follow me to conquer the Yangtze River and the Han River, you can be rewarded for your merits, but your armor and shield made of rhinoceros leather are broken in vain, and your spears and halberds are hung together; you can achieve the highest level of goodness, but you are excluded and suppressed and cannot understand it. You have Fu Shuo and Lu Shang's strategy is based on the lamentations of Qu Yuan and Jia Yi. The reason is clear and clear. Those who are trapped in the tangle of packages; high officials invade small officials, powerful families bully the poor and humble people, scholars, farmers, workers, and merchants are in trouble, and the emperor cannot be informed.
If you want to express yourself, you can submit a letter to the Feishi Letter.
In the Jiaxu period, Shaoling decided on auspicious gifts from far and near.
Shao Ling also said: The Minister of Provincial Literature and Literature should follow the regulations of the past. The noble and the humble have taken their places, each with their own rank. They bow forward and backward, kneel and prostrate, to show the king's law. It is grand and beautiful, and this is for everyone to look at.
Due to recent difficulties, the principles of governing the country have been weakened and withered. Official positions are not obtained by accumulating political achievements, and wealth only comes from favor.
The leading general, the guarding general, the left and right guard generals, the brave cavalry general, and the guerrilla general are all in the fourth rank, and high-ranking officials show their rank to seek rewards for futile efforts.
The ranks of court officials in full attire, bowing to the ministers, tending to the wealthy and powerful, and keeping pace with the prime ministers and officials.
So it's upside down, and it's hard to tell the difference between high and low.
Quietly sad, thinking to correct the shortcomings caused by the past.
Moreover, those who ignore laws and despise officials often develop the habit of laziness and laxity, and punish them with ordinary punishments, which cannot be changed in light of previous mistakes.
Beatings with torture instruments made of eucalyptus and thorns were used to demonstrate the severity, instead of the punishment of cutting off the toes. There were orders for beatings, and if there were any, you could obey them.
Officials from outside the court discuss the matter in detail together, and it must be reasonable and reasonable.
Guiwei issued an edict: Officials in the Xiangguo Mansion may be transferred to official offices in central agencies based on their qualifications and merits; if the job quota has been reached and the remaining ones moved to the Husbandry Mansion, they may be granted positions based on their qualifications and merits.
On the leap month of Dingyou, Liang Miyong, king of Xingdangchang, was appointed as the general of Anxi and the governor of Heliang two states, and was officially named the king of Dangchang.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
壬寅，以车骑将军夏侯详为右光禄大夫。
诏曰： 成务弘风，肃厉内外，实由设官分职，互相惩纠。
而顷壹拘常式，见失方奏，多容违惰，莫肯执咎，宪纲日弛，渐以为俗，今端右可以风闻奏事，依元熙旧制。
五月乙亥夜，盗人南、北掖，烧神虎门、总章观，害卫尉卿张弘策。
戊子，江州刺史陈伯之举兵反，以领军将军王茂为征南将军、江州刺史，率众讨之。
六月庚戌，以行北秦州刺史杨绍先为北秦州刺史、武都王。
是月，陈伯之奔魏，江州平。
前益州刺史刘季连据成都反。
八月戊戌，置建康三官。
乙巳，平北将军、西凉州刺史象舒彭进号安西将军，封邓至王。
丁未，诏中书监王莹等八人参定律令。
是月，诏尚书曹郎依昔奏事。
林邑、干利国各遣使献方物。
冬十一月己未，立小庙。
甲子，立皇子统为皇太子。
十二月丙申，以国子祭酒张稷为护军将军。
辛亥，护军将军张稷免。
是岁大旱，米斗五千，人多饿死。
二年春正月甲寅朔，诏曰： 三讯五听，著自圣典，哀矜折狱，义重前诰，盖所以明慎用刑，深戒疑枉，成功致治，罔不由兹。
朕自籓部，常躬讯录，求理得情，洪细必尽。
末运弛网，斯政又阙，牢犴沉壅，申诉靡从。
朕属当期运，君临兆亿，虽复斋居宣室，留心听断；而九牧遐荒，无因临览。
深惧怀冤就鞫，匪惟一方。
可申敕诸州，月一临讯，博询择善，务在确实。
乙卯，以尚书仆射沈约为尚书左仆射；吏部尚书范云为尚书右仆射；前将军鄱阳王恢为南徐州刺史；尚书令王亮为左光禄大夫；右卫将军柳庆远为中领军。
丙辰，尚书令、新除左光禄大夫王亮免。
夏四月癸卯，尚书删定郎蔡法度上《梁律》二十卷、《令》三十卷、《科》四十卷。
五月丁巳，尚书右仆射范云卒。
乙丑，益州刺史邓元起克成都，曲赦益州。
壬申，断诸郡县献奉二宫。
惟诸州及会稽，职惟岳牧，许荐任土，若非地产，亦不得贡。
六月丁亥，诏以东阳、信安、豊安三县水潦，漂损居民资业，遣使周履，量蠲课调。
translation: 
Renyin appointed Chariot and Cavalry General Xia Houxiang as Doctor Youguanglu.
The edict stated: "To achieve great success, promote virtue, and organize internal and external affairs, we should set up officials to separate duties, and admonish and supervise each other."
But recently, I have been sticking to the routine, only playing when I see something wrong, tolerate disobedience and contempt more often, dare not make suggestions and accept mistakes, the rules are becoming increasingly relaxed, and it has gradually become a custom. Nowadays, prime ministers and ministers can admonish or impeach officials based on rumors, following the old system of Yuanxi.
On the night of Yihai in May, thieves entered Nanye and Beiye, burned Shenhumen and Zongzhangguan, and killed Wei Weiqing Zhang Hongce.
In Wuzi, Chen Bozhi, the governor of Jiangzhou, rebelled. He appointed the leading general Wang Mao as the general to conquer the south and the governor of Jiangzhou, and led the army to conquer the rebels.
In the sixth month of Gengxu, Yang Shaoxian, the governor of Qinzhou in the north, was appointed the governor of Jitaizhou and the king of Wudu.
In the first month of the war, Chen Bozhi fled to the Northern Wei Dynasty, and Jiangzhou was pacified.
Liu Jilian, the former governor of Yizhou, rebelled against Chengdu.
In August of 1898, the three officials of Jiankang were established.
Yisi, general of Pingbei and governor of Xiliang Prefecture, Xiangshu Pengjin was promoted to general of Anxi and named King Dengzhi.
Ding Wei, Shaoling Zhongshu Supervisor Wang Ying and other eight people discussed and negotiated the law.
In this month, Cao Lang, the minister, was ordered to report the matter to the emperor as usual.
Linyi and Qianchaoli sent envoys to donate local products.
At the end of November in winter, a temple was built for his concubine.
In Jiazi, Prince Xiao Tong was made the crown prince.
In December Bingshen, Zhang Ji, the son of the emperor, was appointed as the general to protect the army.
In 1911, the guard general Zhang Ji was dismissed.
There was a severe drought that year, and every dou of rice cost 5,000 yuan, and many people starved to death.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the second year of the year, Shao Ling said: In the trial of cases, multiple inquiries and five methods must be used. These records are from the sage code. Litigation cases must be judged with compassion, and their significance is emphasized in the previous edicts. These are all for the purpose of applying criminal law with discernment and prudence, avoiding suspicion and injustice, achieving meritorious deeds and governing the world.
When I was in the vassal department, I often personally inspected and interrogated the prisoners' crimes, and sought reason and justice.
In the last days, the country's fortunes have declined, discipline has been weakened, and this kind of politics is lacking. Prisons are overstocked with prisoners and there is no way to appeal.
By good fortune, I was able to rule all the people. Even though I was fasting and staying in the propaganda room, I still paid attention to hearing the cases and ending the prisons. However, Jiuzhou was so remote that I could not visit and inspect it in person.
Not only one party is deeply worried about being tried unjustly.
You can order each state to conduct a trial in person once a month, conduct extensive inquiries and choose the right ones, and be sure to be accurate and trustworthy.
On Yimao, Shen Go was appointed as Shangshu Zuopushe; Fan Yun, the Minister of Civil Affairs, was appointed as Shangshu Youpushe; the former general Poyang King Xiao Hui was appointed as the governor of Southern Xuzhou; Shangshu Ling Yutai was appointed as Zuo Guanglu doctor; the right guard general Liu Qingyuan was appointed as the leader of the central army.
In Bingchen, Wang Liang, the new official of Zuo Guanglu and Shangshu Ling, was dismissed.
In the summer of April, Guimao, Shangshu deleted Lang Cai Fadu and submitted twenty volumes of "Liang Lv", thirty volumes of "Ling", and forty volumes of "Ke".
In the fifth month of Dingsi, Shangshu's right servant She Fan Yun died.
Yichou, Deng Yuanqi, the governor of Yisu, conquered Shengchi and granted Dong maggot amnesty.
Renshen prohibited all counties and counties from paying tribute to the emperor and the prince.
Only the various states and councils, whose position is the feudal official, are allowed to contribute the variety and amount of tribute determined according to the land conditions, if it is not produced locally. No tribute is allowed either.
In June of Dinghai, the imperial edict was issued that due to floods in Dongyang, Xin'an and Feng'an counties, which destroyed the residents' properties, envoys were sent to patrol around and measure the exempted taxes.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
是夏多疬疫。
以新除左光禄大夫谢朏为司徒、尚书令。
甲午，以中书监王莹为尚书右仆射。
秋七月，扶南、龟兹、中天竺国各遣使献方物。
冬十月，魏寇司州。
十一月乙卯，雷电大雨，晦。
是夜又雷。
乙亥，尚书左仆射沈约以母忧去职。
三年春正月戊申，后将军、扬州刺史临川王宏进号中军将军。
癸丑，以尚书右仆射王莹为尚书左仆射，太子詹事柳惔为尚书右仆射，前尚书左仆射沈约为镇军将军。
二月，魏陷梁州。
三月，陨霜杀草。
五月丁巳，以扶南国王憍陈如阇耶跋摩为安南将军。
六月丙子，诏曰： 昔哲王之宰世也，每岁卜征，躬事巡省，民俗政刑，罔不必逮。
末代风凋，久旷兹典。
虽欲肆远忘劳，究临幽仄，而居今行古，事未易从，所以日晏踟蹰，情同再抚。
总总九州，远近民庶，或川路幽遐，或贫羸老疾，怀冤抱理，莫由自申，所以东海匹妇，致灾邦国，西土孤魂，登楼请诉。
念此于怀，中夜太息。
可分将命巡行州部。其有深冤钜害，抑郁无归，听诣使者，依源自列。
庶以矜隐之念，昭被四方，棨听远闻，事均亲览。
癸未，大赦天下。
秋七月丁未，以光禄大夫夏侯详为车骑将军、湘州刺史，湘州刺史杨公则为中护军。
甲子，立皇子综为豫章郡王。
八月，魏陷司州，诏以南义阳置司州。
九月壬子，以河南王世子伏连筹为镇西将军、西秦河二州刺史、河南王。
北天竺国遣使献方物。
冬十一月甲子，诏曰： 设教因时，淳薄异政，刑以世革，轻重殊风。
昔商俗未移，民散久矣，婴网陷辟，日夜相寻。
若悉加正法，则赭衣塞路；并申弘宥，则难用为国，故使有罪入赎，以全元元之命。
今遐迩知禁，圄犴稍虚，率斯以往，庶几刑措。
金作权典，宜在蠲息。可除赎罪之科。
是岁多疾疫。
translation: 
A plague broke out in the summer of that year.
Appointed the newly appointed doctor Zuo Guanglu to serve as Situ and Shangshu Ling.
In the Jiawu period, Wang Ying, the supervisor of Zhongshu, was appointed as the right servant of Shangshu.
In autumn and July, Diechen, Yulang and Zhongtianzhu each sent envoys to offer local products.
In the winter of October, the Northern Wei Dynasty invaded Sizhou.
On Yimao in November, there was thunder, lightning and heavy rain, and the sky was dark and the earth was dark.
There was thunder and lightning again that night.
In Yihai, Shangshu Zuopu shot Shen Yue and resigned due to the death of his mother.
In the spring of the third year of the first lunar month of Wushen, Linchuan Wang Lushui, the later general and the governor of Yangzhou, was promoted to the rank of general of the Chinese army.
Guichou appointed Shangshu Youpushe Wang Ying as Shangshu Zuopushe, Prince Zhan Shiliu Hui as Shangshu Youpushe, and former Shangshu Zuopushe Shen Yue was the general of the town army.
In February, the Northern Wei Dynasty captured Liangzhou.
In March, frost comes and the grass wilts.
In the fifth month of Dingsi, the king of Funan, Chen Ruheyavarman, was appointed as the general of Annan.
On the Bingzi day of the sixth month, Shao Ling said: In the past, when the wise kings were in charge of governing the world, they would divine the good and bad luck of the expedition every year, personally patrol and inspect, and take into account the people's customs, government orders, and punishments.
In the last days, the customs have declined, and this method has been abandoned for a long time.
Although I want to travel to distant places tirelessly and observe the humble, but it is not easy to follow the ancient road today, so I wander around late in the day, feeling the same sympathy again.
In all Jiuzhou, people from far and near, some with remote waterways, some poor, weak, old and sick, had grievances and had no way to appeal. Therefore, civilian women in the Cambodian Sea caused disasters to the country, and lonely souls in the Western Lands went to the towers to appeal.
Thinking about this in my heart, I often sigh deeply in the middle of the night.
They can be ordered to patrol the prefectures separately. Those who have deep grievances and serious harm, and who are worried, angry, and depressed and have nowhere to go can be allowed to go to the envoys and report their own circumstances according to the original situation.
I hope that my sympathy and compassion will spread to all directions like the light of the sun and the moon, so that the viewing and hearing range will be farther and wider, and things will be as if I am personally handling them.
Guiwei, amnesty to the world.
At the end of July in the autumn, Xia Houxiang, the official of Guanglu, was appointed as the general of chariots and cavalry and the history of Hunan, and Yang Gongze, the governor of Xiangzhou, was appointed as the central guard army.
In Jiazi, the prince Xiao Zong was made the Prince of Yuzhang County.
In August, after the attack was over, the imperial edict was issued to place a maggot on the base of the pot lamp.
In September, the prince appointed Fulianchou, the eldest son of the King of Henan, as the general of Zhenxi, the governor of the two states of Qinhe in the west, and the king of Henan.
Northern Tianzhu sent envoys to offer local products.
In the winter of November, Jiazi, the edict said: The implementation of enlightenment shall be based on the specific conditions of different times and appropriate measures shall be formulated. The political integrity is different from the thinness, the punishment changes with the changes in the world, and the frivolity of the customs is different from the magnanimity.
In the past, the customs of the Shang Dynasty have not changed, and the people have been separated for a long time. They fell into the trap and were punished day and night.
If all are rectified, the streets will be full of criminals; if all are pardoned, it will be difficult to use them to serve the country. Therefore, the guilty should be allowed to pay for their sins and be used to save the lives of the people.
Now that the law and prohibition are known far and wide, the prisons are gradually emptying. From now on, perhaps the criminal law can be abandoned.
The use of money to remove legal punishment should be abolished. The statutes of atonement can be removed.
Infectious diseases are prevalent this year.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
四年春正月癸卯朔，诏曰： 今九流常选，年未三十，不通一经，不得解褐。
若有才同甘、颜，勿限年次。
置《五经》博士各一人。
以镇北将军、雍州刺史、建安王伟为南徐州刺史，南徐州刺史鄱阳王恢为郢州刺史，中领军柳庆远为雍州刺史。
丙午，省《凤皇衔书伎》。
戊申，诏曰： 夫禋郊飨帝，至敬攸在，致诚尽悫，犹惧有违；而往代多令宫人纵观兹礼，帷宫广设，辎軿耀路，非所以仰虔苍昊，昭感上灵。
属车之间，见讥前世，便可自今停止。
辛亥，舆驾亲祠南郊，赦天下。
二月壬午，遣卫尉卿杨公则率宿卫兵塞洛口。
壬辰，交州刺史李凯据州反，长史李畟讨平之。
曲赦交州。
戊戌，以前郢州刺史曹景宗为中护军。
是月，立建兴苑于秣陵建兴里。
夏四月丁巳，以行宕昌王梁弥博为安西将军、河凉二州刺史、宕昌王。
是月，自甲寅至壬戌，甘露连降华林园。
五月辛卯，建康县朔阴里生嘉禾，一茎十二穗。
六月庚戌，立孔子庙。
壬戌，岁星昼见。
秋七月辛卯，右光禄大夫张瑰卒。
八月庚子，老人星见。
冬十月丙午，北伐，以中军将军、扬州刺史临川王宏都督北讨诸军事，尚书右仆射柳惔为副。
是岁，以兴师费用，王公以下各上国租及田谷，以助军资。
十一月辛未，以都官尚书张稷为领军将军。
甲午，天晴朗，西南有电光，闻如雷声三。
十二月，司徒、尚书令谢朏以所生母忧，去职。
是岁大穰，米斛三十。
五年春正月丁卯朔，诏曰： 在昔周、汉，取士方国。
translation: 
In the spring of the fourth year, on the first day of the first lunar month of Guimao, Shao Ling said: Nowadays, those who are under the age of thirty and cannot master the first class are not allowed to serve in the ninth rank.
If you have the same talent as Gan Luo and Yan Hui, there is no age limit.
One doctor each of the Five Classics was established.
The general of Zhenbei and the governor of Yizhou, Jian'an Wang Lu Gong, were appointed as the governor of Mujian, the governor of southern Xuzhou, Poyang Wang Xiaohui, was appointed as the governor of Yingzhou, and the central leader Liu Qingyuan was appointed the governor of Yongzhou.
On Bingwu, I read "The Phoenix Emperor's Title as a Calligrapher".
Wu Shen and Shao Ling said: When offering sacrifices to the Emperor of Heaven in the suburbs, one should show great reverence and express one's sincerity and respect, but one is still afraid of disobedience. However, in previous generations, many concubines and palace maidens were allowed to watch the ceremony freely, with large palaces decorated with curtains and shielded carriages shining brightly on the road. This is not an act of worshiping the sky and sincerely feeling God.
Among emperors, being ridiculed in the past life can stop from now on.
In Xinhai, the emperor personally offered sacrifices to heaven in the southern suburbs and granted amnesty to the world.
In the second month of Renwu, Yang Gongze, the Weiwei Qing, was sent to lead the imperial army to build a fortress at Luokou.
In Renchen, Li Kai, the governor of Jiaozhou, rebelled against the state, and Li Yi, the chief governor, conquered him and put him down.
Amnesty to the state.
In the Wuxu period, Cao Jingzong, the former governor of Yingzhou, was appointed as the Central Guard Army.
In the first month of the Han Dynasty, Jianxing Garden was built in Jianxing Lane, Moling.
In the fourth month of summer, Dingsi, Liang Mibo, the king of Xingdanchang, was appointed as the general of Anxi, the governor of Heliang and the two prefectures, and the king of Danchang.
In this month, from Jiayin to Renxu, nectar landed in Hualin Garden one after another.
On Xinmao in May, strange rice grew in Shuoyin, Jiankang County, with twelve ears on one stem.
In the sixth month of Gengxu, the Confucius Temple was built.
In Renxu, the year star appeared during the day.
On the Xinmao day of the seventh month in the autumn, Dr. Zhang Wan of Youguanglu passed away.
In August, the star Canopus appears.
On Bingwu, the tenth month of the winter, during the Northern Expedition, the general of the Chinese army and the governor of Zhoucong, Linchuan King Lusei, were appointed as the governor of Lushai, the capital of Linchuan, to attack various military affairs in the north.
This year, due to the expenses of raising an army, the princes and below each paid taxes on their fields and grain to support the military.
In November of Xinwei, Zhang Ji, the governor of the capital, was appointed as the leading general.
On Jiawu, the weather was clear, there was lightning in the southwest, and I heard what seemed like three thunders.
In December, Situ and Shangshu Ling Xie Li resigned due to the death of their biological mother.
There was a good harvest this year, and each dendrobium of rice cost thirty.
On the first day of the first lunar month in the fifth year of spring, Shao Ling said: In the past, when the eyes were carved and the lotuses were in full bloom, scholars were recruited from the princely states of the four directions.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
顷代凋讹，幽仄罕被，人孤地绝，用隔听览，士操沦胥，因兹靡劝。
岂其岳渎纵灵，偏有厚薄，实由知与不知，用与不用耳。
朕以菲德，君此兆民，而兼明广照，屈于堂户，飞耳长目，不及四方，永言愧怀，无忘旦夕。
凡诸郡国旧族，邦内无在朝位者，选官搜括，使郡有一人。
乙亥，以前司徒谢朏为中书监、司徒、卫将军，镇军将军沈约为右光禄大夫，豫章王综为南徐州刺史。
丁丑，以尚书左仆射王莹为护军将军，仆射如故。
甲申，立皇子纲为晋安郡王。
丁亥，太白昼见。
二月庚戌，以太常张充为吏部尚书。
三月丙寅朔，日有蚀之。
癸未，魏宣武帝从弟翼率其诸弟来降。
辅国将军刘思效破魏青州刺史元系于胶水。
丁亥，陈伯之自寿阳率众归降。
夏四月丙申，庐陵高昌之仁山获铜剑二，始豊县获八目龟一。
甲寅，诏曰： 朕昧旦斋居，惟刑是恤，三辟五听，寝兴载怀。
故陈肺石于都街，增官司于诏狱，殷勤亲览，小大以情。
而明慎未洽，囹圄尚壅，永言纳隍，在予兴愧。
凡犴狱之所，可遣法官近侍，递录囚徒，如有枉滞，以时奏闻。
五月辛未，太子左卫率张惠绍克魏宿预城。
乙亥，临川王宏前军克梁城。
辛巳，豫州刺史韦睿克合肥城。
丁亥，庐江太守裴邃克羊石城；庚寅，又克霍丘城。
辛卯，太白昼见。
六月庚子，青、冀二州刺史桓和前军克朐山城。
秋七月乙丑，邓至国遣使献方物。
八月戊戌，老人星见。
辛酉，作太子宫。
冬十一月甲子，京师地震。
乙丑，以师出淹时，大赦天下。
魏寇钟离，遣右卫将军曹景宗率众赴援。
十二月癸卯，司徒谢朏薨。
六年春正月辛酉朔，诏曰： 径寸之宝，或隐沙泥；以人废言，君子斯戒。
朕听朝晏罢，思阐政术，虽百辟卿士，有怀必闻，而蓄响边遐，未臻魏阙。
或屈以贫陋，或间以山川，顿足延首，无因奏达。
岂所以沉浮靡漏，远迩兼得者乎？
四方士民，若有欲陈言刑政，益国利民，沦碍幽远，不能自通者，可各诠条布怀于刺史二千石。
translation: 
In modern times, there has been decline and chaos, and people who live in seclusion rarely take care of it. People are isolated and far away, so they are isolated from sight and hearing.
Could it be that the Five Mountains and Four Dus indulge in their mighty power, and the mere existence of relatives and sparseness is actually due to the fact that the people know and do not know, and they use or do not use them.
I rule these people with my meager virtues, and all the lights I light for illumination are limited to the courtyard. No matter how I expand my sight and hearing range, I cannot spread it to all directions. I always feel guilty and never forget it day and night.
In each county, if there are no family members with certain social and political status in the country or those from the motherland with a long history who are serving in the government, the Ministry of Officials must search extensively so that one person can be elected from each county.
In Yihai, former Situ Xie Chu was appointed as Zhongshu Supervisor, Situ, and General Wei. General Shen Yue of the town army was appointed as Dr. Youguanglu. Xiao Zong, king of Yuzhang, was appointed as the governor of Southern Xuzhou.
Ding Chou appointed Shangshu Zuopushe Wang Ying as the general guarding the army, and Pushe remained as usual.
Jiashen, established the prince Xiao Gang as the king of Jin'an County.
Ding Hai, Taibai Star appears during the day.
In the second month of Gengxu, Taichang Zhang Chong was appointed Minister of the Ministry of Personnel.
On the first day of March, Bingyin, a solar eclipse occurred.
In Guiwei, Wu Lou, cousin of Xuanwu Tong in the Northern Wei Dynasty, led his brothers from the same clan to surrender.
Liu Sixiao, the general of the auxiliary state, defeated Wei Qingzhou's governor Yuan Xi in Jiao Shui. Dinghai.
Chen Bozhi led his troops from Shouyang to surrender.
In April Bingshen of summer, Renshan from Luling Gaochang received two bronze swords, and Weifeng County received an eight-eyed turtle.
Jiayin issued an edict: I fasted and stayed away at dawn, just thinking about the implementation of the criminal law and the five methods of reviewing cases in the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties, day and night.
Therefore, lung stones were set up in the downtown area to collect opinions, and officials were added to the prisons where prisoners were ordered to be arrested. They worked diligently and personally managed the cases, handling large and small cases according to the facts.
However, prudence and prudence have not been widely spread, and the prisons are still full of prisoners. I always have the eagerness to save people from water and fire, and I am filled with guilt.
Wherever there is a prison, judicial officials and my attendants can be dispatched to register the prisoners one by one. If there are any unjust cases that cannot be redressed, report them promptly.
At the end of the fifth month, Prince Zuowei led Zhang Huishao to capture Suyu City in the Northern Wei Dynasty.
In Yihai, the vanguard of Linchuan King Xiao Hong captured Liangcheng.
Xin Si, Wei He, the governor of Suye, conquered Hedanshao.
In Dinghai, the prefect of Luliao, Xisui, captured Yangshi City; in Gengyin, he also captured Huoqiu City.
Xin Mao, Taibai Star appears during the day.
In June of Gengzi, the leading troops of Danhe, the governor of Yizhou and Jizhou, captured Qushan City.
In the seventh month of autumn, Yichou, Deng Zhiguo sent envoys to present local products.
In August, Canopus appeared.
Xin You built the Tai Palace.
In the winter of November, there was an earthquake in Kyoto.
Yichou, because the army went out for a period of time, he was granted amnesty.
The Northern Wei Dynasty invaded Zhong Min and sent right-guard general Xuan Kensai to lead his army to rescue him.
In the twelfth month of Guimao, Situ Xiebei passed away.
In the spring of the sixth year, on the first day of the first lunar month of the Xinyou lunar month, an edict was issued: Some of the jade stones one inch in diameter are buried in the sand and mud. A gentleman should be wary of abandoning the good words he has said because of his shortcomings.
I came to the court to attend to the affairs of state very late before leaving, thinking about formulating a political strategy. Although all the officials and ministers would report their thoughts to me, the rumors accumulated in the remote areas did not reach the imperial court.
Maybe because of poverty and depression, or because of the distance between mountains, although I eagerly look forward to it, I can't do it.
Is it a way to ensure that everything from top to bottom is not missed and that people from far and near can get it?
If the people from all over the world want to express their opinions on criminal laws and regulations, which can benefit the country and the people, but if they are unable to report them themselves because of the profound obstacles, they can explain their opinions to the governor Ergan Shibu in their own interpretation.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
有可申采，大小以闻。
己卯，诏曰： 夫有天下者，义非为己。
凶荒疾疬，兵革水火，有一于此，责归元首。
今祝史请祷，继诸不善，以朕身当之。永使灾害不及万姓，俾兹下民稍蒙宁息。
不得为朕祈福，以增其过。
特班远迩，咸令遵奉。
二月甲辰，老人星见。
三月庚申朔，陨霜杀草。
是月，有三象入京师。
夏四月壬辰，置左右骁骑、左右游击将军官。
癸巳，曹景宗、韦睿等破魏军于邵阳洲，斩获万计。
癸卯，以右卫将军曹景宗为领军将军、徐州刺史。
己酉，以江州刺史王茂为尚书右仆射，中书令安成王秀为平南将军、江州刺史。
分湘广二州置衡州。
丁巳，以中军将军、扬州刺史临川王宏为骠骑将军、开府仪同三司，抚军将军建安王伟为扬州刺史，右光禄大夫沈约为尚书左仆射，尚书左仆射王莹为中军将军。
五月己未，以新除左骁骑将军长沙王深业为中护军。
癸亥，以侍中袁昂为吏部尚书。
己巳，置中卫、中权将军，改骁骑为云骑，游击为游骑。
辛未，右将军、扬州刺史建安王伟进号中权将军。
六月庚戌，以车骑将军、湘州刺史夏侯详为右光禄大夫，新除金紫光禄大夫柳惔为安南将军、湘州刺史。
新吴县获四目龟一。
秋七月甲子，太白昼见。
丙寅，分广州置桂州。
丁亥，以新除尚书右仆射王茂为中卫将军。
八月戊子，赦天下。
戊戌，大风折木。
京师大水，因涛入，加御道七尺。
九月，嘉禾一茎九穗，生江陵县。
乙亥，改阅武堂为德阳堂，听讼堂为仪贤堂。
丙戌，以左卫将军吕僧珍为平北将军、南兗州刺史，豫章内史萧昌为广州刺史。
冬十月壬寅，以五兵尚书徐勉为吏部尚书。
translation: 
If there is anything that can be adopted, please report it no matter how big or small it is.
Ji Mao issued an edict: Those who rule the world should not do it for themselves.
Years of famine, plagues, and wars are difficult and dangerous. One thing here, the responsibility belongs to the monarch.
Today, I pray as a priest, because there are many bad deeds, and I will bear them with my body, so that disasters will never harm the people, and the people will have a little peace.
Do not seek blessings for me to increase my faults.
The special decree must be obeyed, both near and far.
On the first day of February, the star Canopus appears.
On the first day of the third lunar month, frost fell and the vegetation withered.
This month, three elephants entered Kyoto.
In the summer of April, Renchen, the posts of left and right valiant cavalry and left and right guerrilla generals were established.
Guisi, Cao Jingzong, Tong He and others defeated the Jiwei army on a patrol in Yingyang, killing and capturing tens of thousands of the enemy.
In Guimao, Dong Liangsai, the right-guard general, was appointed as the leading general and the governor of Xuzhou.
Jiyou appointed Wang Jie, the governor of Liao Dynasty, as Shangshu Youpushe, and Xiao Zhou, the king of Ancheng, was appointed as the governor of Jiangzhou and the general of Pingnan.
A part of the two prefectures of Hunan and Guangzhou was separated and established as a state.
Ding Si appointed the general of the Chinese army and the governor of Yangzhou, Linchuan Wang Luse, as the general of hussar and the third division of Kaifu Yitong. The general of the Fu army, King Lu Wei of Jian'an, was appointed as the governor of Zheye. Dr. Youguanglu, Shen Bao, was appointed as Shangshu Zuopushe. Wang Ying, the minister of Zuopushe, was appointed as the general of the central army.
At the end of May, the newly appointed general Zuo Xiaoqi, Changsha Wangli Tomb, was appointed as the central guard.
In Guihai, he appointed Ser Xian as Minister of the Ministry of Personnel.
At Jisi, Zhongwei and Zhongquan generals were set up. Xiaoqi was renamed Yunqi, and guerrillas were named Youqi.
Xin Wei, the right general and the governor of Nuozhou, Jiansailan Luwei, was promoted to the title of Zhongquan general.
In the sixth month of Gengxu, Xia Houxiang, the general of chariots and cavalry and the governor of Xiangzhou, was appointed as Dr. Youguanglu, and the newly appointed Dr. Liu Hui of Jin Ziguanglu was appointed as the general of Annan and the governor of Xiangzhou.
Xinwu County obtained a turtle with four eyes.
In the autumn of July, the Taibai Star appears during the day.
Bingyin separated part of Guangzhou and established Guizhou.
In Dinghai, Wang Mao, the newly appointed right servant of Shangshu, was appointed as the general of the Central Guard.
In the eighth month of the lunar month, a general amnesty will be granted to the whole world.
In the Wuxu period, strong winds broke the trees.
A major flood occurred in Kyoto. Due to the intrusion of large waves, the road for the imperial carriages was raised seven feet.
In September, there is a strong rice stalk with nine ears growing in Jiangling Alligator.
In Yihai, the martial arts hall was renamed Deyang hall, and the hearing hall was renamed Yishu hall.
In Bingxu, General Dan Meng of Zuowei was appointed General of Pingbei and Governor of Yanzhou in the South, and Xiao Chang, Internal Secretary of Yuzhang, was appointed Governor of Guangzhou.
In the tenth month of the winter, Renyin appointed Xu Mian, the Minister of the Fifth Army, as the Minister of the Ministry of Personnel.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
闰月乙丑，以骠骑将军、开府仪同三司临川王宏为司徒、行太子太傅，尚书左仆射沈约为尚书令、行太子少傅，吏部尚书袁昂为右仆射。
戊寅，平西将军、荆州刺史始兴王忄詹进号安西将军。
甲申，以右光禄大夫夏侯详为尚书左仆射。
十二月丙辰，尚书左仆射夏侯详卒。
乙丑，魏淮阳镇都军主常邕和以城内属。
分豫州置霍州。
七年春正月乙酉朔，诏曰： 建国君民，立教为首。
不学将落，嘉植靡由。
朕肇基明命，光宅区宇，虽耕耘雅业，傍阐艺文，而成器未广，志本犹阙，非所以熔范贵游，纳诸轨度。
思欲式敦让齿，自家刑国。
今声训所渐，戎夏同风，宜大启庠斅，博延胄子，务彼十伦，弘此三德，使陶钧远被，微言载表。
中卫将军、领太子詹事王茂进号车骑将军。
戊戌，作神龙、仁虎阙于端门、大司马门外。
壬子，以领军将军曹景宗为中卫将军，卫尉萧景兼领军将军。
二月乙卯，庐江灊县获铜钟二。
新作国门于越城南。乙丑，增置镇卫将军以下各有差。
庚午，诏于州郡县置州望、郡宗、乡豪各一人，专掌搜荐。
乙亥，以车骑大将军高丽王高云为抚东大将军、开府仪同三司，平北将军、南兗州刺史吕僧珍为领军将军。
丙子，以中护军长沙王深业为南兗州刺史，兼领军将军萧景为雍州刺史，雍州刺史柳庆远为护军将军。
夏四月乙卯，皇太子纳妃，赦大辟以下，颁赐朝臣及近侍各有差。
辛未，秣陵县获灵龟一。
戊寅，余姚县获古铜剑二。
五月己亥，诏复置宗正、太仆、大匠、鸿胪，又增太府、太舟，仍先为十二卿。
癸卯，以平南将军、江州刺史安成王秀为平西将军、荆州刺史，安西将军、荆州刺史始兴王憺为护军将军，中卫将军曹景宗为安南将军、江州刺史。
六月辛酉，复建、修二陵周回五里内居民，改陵监为令。
translation: 
In the leap month of the tenth month, Yichou appointed Lu Sai, the general of the Hussars and the three divisions of Kaifu Yi and Tongsansi, as Situ and Taifu of the Crown Prince. Shangshu Zuopushe selected Bao as Shangshu Ling and Prince Xing as Shaofu. Yuan Ang, Minister of the Ministry of Personnel, was appointed as Youpushe.
Wuyin, Pingxi General, Jingzhou Governor Shixing Wang Xiao Danjin was promoted to the title of Anxi General.
In Jiashen, Xia Houxiang, the official of Youguanglu, was appointed as Shangshu Zuopushe.
In December Bingchen, Shangshu Zuopushe Xia Houxiang passed away.
Yichou, Chang Yonghe, the military leader of Huaiyang Town in the Northern Wei Dynasty, led the city to surrender.
Separate part of Yuzhou and establish Huozhou.
On the first day of the first lunar month in the seventh year of spring, Shao Ling said: When establishing a country to rule the people, establishing education is the first priority.
If you don’t learn, you will decline and talents will not emerge.
I founded the foundation and fulfilled my mission, spreading it throughout the world. Although I studied knowledge and studied rhetoric, I could not achieve success in many aspects. My ambition itself was still lacking, and I could not serve as a model for the nobles and bring it into the standard.
I want to encourage people to be humble to their elders and govern the country by law.
Now, influenced by the influence of prestige and enlightenment, Rongdi and Huaxia have both been enlightened by the emperor. They should open large schools and recruit Guozi students to devote themselves to the ten ethics and promote these three qualities so that the world can be cultivated and cultivated, and the profound meaning of the saint's subtle language can be displayed.
General of the Central Guard, Prince Zhan Shi Wang Maojin was promoted to General of Chariots and Cavalry.
In the Wuxu period, Shenlong and Renhu towers were built outside Duanmen and Dasimamen.
Renzi appointed the leading general Cao Jingzong as the central guard general, and the guard Xiao Jing also served as the leading general.
In February Yimao, Sa County of Lujiang received two bronze bells.
A new national gate was built in the south of Yuecheng. Yichou, the number of officials below the general of the town guard is added varies.
In the Gengwu period, Shao ordered one person each to be in charge of visits and recommendations.
In Yihai, the chariot and cavalry general Gaoyun of Goryeo was appointed as the general Fushu and the third division of Kaifu Yitong, and the general Pingbei and the governor of Nanyanzhou Lu Sengzhen were appointed as the leading generals.
In Bingzi, Wang Yuanye, Changsha of the Central Guard Army, was appointed as the governor of South Yanzhou, Xiao Jing, the leading general, was appointed as the governor of Yongzhou, and Liu Qingyuan, the governor of Yongzhou, was appointed as the general of the guard army.
On Yimao, the fourth month of the summer, the crown prince married concubines, pardoned criminals under the death penalty, and rewarded courtiers and attendants in different ways.
Xinwei, Moling County received a spirit turtle.
Wuyin, Yuyao County obtained two bronze swords.
In the fifth month of Jihai, Zongzheng, Taipu, Dajiang, and Honglu were re-established, and Taifu and Taizhou were added. According to the original system, they were the twelve ministers.
In Guimao, Xiao Xiu, the general of Pingnan and the governor of Jiangzhou and the governor of Ancheng, was appointed as the general of Pingxi and the governor of Jingzhou. The general of Anxi and the governor of Jingzhou, Xiao Dan, the king of Shixing, was appointed as the general to protect the army. The general of the central defense, Cao Jingzong, was appointed as the general of Annan and the governor of Jiangzhou.
In Xinyou day of June, the residents within five miles of the construction and repair of the two tombs were exempted from corvee service, and the tomb supervisor was appointed as the order.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
秋七月丁亥，月犯氐。
八月癸丑，安南将军、江州刺史曹景宗卒。
丁巳，赦大辟以下未结正者。
甲戌，平西将军、荆州刺史安成王秀进号安西将军，云麾将军、郢州刺史鄱阳王恢进号平西将军。
老人星见。
九月丁亥，诏曰： 刍牧必往，姬文垂则，雉兔有刑，姜宣致贬。
薮泽山林，毓材是出，斧斤之用，比屋所资。
而顷世相承，并加封固，岂所谓与民同利，惠兹黔首？
凡公家诸屯戍见封熂者，可悉开常禁。
壬辰，置童子奉车郎。
癸巳，立皇子绩为南康郡王。
己亥，月犯东井。
冬十月丙寅，以吴兴太守张稷为尚书左仆射。
丙子，魏阳关主许敬珍以城内附。
诏大举北伐。
以护军将军始兴王憺为平北将军，率众入清；车骑将军王茂率众向宿预。
丁丑，魏悬瓠镇军主白皁生、豫州刺史胡逊以城内属。以皁生为镇北将军、司州刺史，逊为平北将军、豫州刺史。
十一月辛巳，鄞县言甘露降。
八年春正月辛巳，舆驾亲祠南郊，赦天下，内外文武各赐劳一年。
壬辰，魏镇东参军成景俊斩宿预城主严仲宝，以城内属。
二月壬戌，老人星见。
夏四月，以北巴西郡置南梁州。
戊申，以护军将军始兴王憺为中卫将军，司徒、行太子太傅临川王宏为司空、扬州刺史，车骑将军、领太子詹事王茂即本号开府仪同三司。
丁卯，魏楚王城主李国兴以城内附。
丙子，以中军将军、丹阳尹王莹为右光禄大夫。
五月壬午，诏曰： 学以从政，殷勤往哲，禄在其中，抑亦前事。
朕思阐治纲，每敦儒术，轼闾辟馆，造次以之。
translation: 
In the seventh month of autumn, Ding Hai, the moon is in Di constellation.
In August Guichou, Cao Jingzong, general Annan and governor of Jiangzhou, passed away.
Ding Si, pardoned prisoners who have not been sentenced to death or less.
In Jiaxu, Xiao Xiujin, general of Pingxi and king of Ancheng, the governor of Jingzhou, was promoted to general Anxi. General Yunhui and Xiao Huijin, king of Poyang, governor of Yingzhou, was promoted to general general Xi.
Canopus appears.
In the ninth month of Dinghai, Shao Ling said: "You must go there to cut grass and graze. King Wen of Zhou issued instructions; pheasants and rabbits were killed, and Jiang Xuan was reprimanded."
Swamps, lakes and mountain forests produce timber, which is cut down with an ax and used by every household.
However, in modern times, they have been followed one after another, and they have been closed and imprisoned. Is this the so-called sharing the interests of the people and benefiting the people?
All the ordinary prohibitions can be lifted on all public garrison areas used for fishing, hunting and cultivation.
In Renchen, set up a boy to serve as a charioteer.
Guisi established Prince Xiao Ji as the Prince of Nankang County.
In Jihai, the moon invades the stars of Dongjing.
In the winter of October, Bingyin appointed Zhang Ji, the prefect of Wuxing, as Shangshu Zuopushe.
In Bingzi, Xu Jingzhen, the leader of Yangguan in the Northern Wei Dynasty, led the city to surrender.
The imperial edict was issued for a large-scale northern expedition.
He appointed the guard general, Shixing Wang Xiao Dan, as the Pingbei general and led his army into the Qing Dynasty; the chariot and cavalry general, Wang Mao, led his army into Suyu.
Ding Chou, Bai Zaosheng, the military leader of Xuanhu Town in the Northern Wei Dynasty, and Hu Xun, the governor of Yuzhou, led the city to surrender. They appointed Fusheng as the general of Zhenbei and the governor of Sizhou, and Hu Xun as the general of Hubei and the governor of Yuzhou.
In the eleventh month of Xinsi, Yinxian County announced the arrival of manna.
In the spring of the eighth year, on the first day of the first lunar month, Xinsi, the emperor personally went to the southern suburbs to offer sacrifices and offered amnesty to the whole world. Civil and military officials inside and outside the imperial court each gave him rewards and condolences for a year.
In Renchen, Cheng Jingjun from Zhenshu of the Northern Wei Dynasty killed Yan Zhongbao, the lord of Suyu City, and led the city to surrender.
In the second month of Renxu, the star Canopus appeared.
In April in summer, Nanyangzhou was established in North Pasir County.
In Wushen, he appointed the guard general Shixing Wang Xiaoqi as the central guard general, Situ and the prince Taifu Linchuan Wang Xiaohong as Sikong and Yangzhou governor, the chariot general and the leading prince Zhan Shi Wang Mao used the original official title to open the mansion Yitong Sansi.
Ding Mao, Li Guoxing, the lord of the city of Chu King in the Northern Wei Dynasty, led the city to surrender.
Bingzi appointed Danyang Yin Wangying, the general of the Chinese army, as Dr. Youguanglu.
On Renwu in the fifth month, the edict said: "Study is for politics, pay attention to the sages, and get rich among them. Perhaps this is an ancient cause."
I think about the political principles of Guangda, always work diligently on Confucian scholarship, pay tribute to the virtuous, open schools, and implement them without interruption.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
故负帙成风，甲科间出，方当置诸周行，饰以青紫。
其有能通一经，始末无倦者，策实之后，选可量加叙录。
虽复牛监羊肆，寒品后门，并随才试吏，勿有遗隔。
秋七月癸巳，巴陵王萧宝义薨。
八月戊午，老人星见。
冬十月乙巳，以中军将军始兴王慎为镇北将军、南兗州刺史，南兗州刺史长沙王深业为护军将军。
九年春正月乙亥，以尚书令、行太子少傅沈约为左光禄大夫，行少傅如故，右光禄大夫王莹为尚书令，行中抚将军建安王伟领护军将军，镇北将军、南兗州刺史始兴王憺为镇西将军、益州刺史，太常卿王亮为中书监。
丙子，以轻车将军晋安王纲为南兗州刺史。
庚寅，新作缘淮塘，北岸起石头迄东冶，南岸起后渚篱门迄三桥。
三月己丑，车驾幸国子学，亲临讲肆，赐国子祭酒以下帛各有差。
乙未，诏曰： 王子从学，著自礼经，贵游咸在，实惟前诰，所以式广义方，克隆教道。
今成均大启，元良齿让，自斯以降，并宜肄业。
皇太子及王侯之子，年在从师者，可令入学。
于阗国遣使献方物。
夏四月丁巳，革选尚书五都令史用寒流。
林邑国遣使献白猴一。
五月己亥，诏曰： 朕达听思治，无忘日昃。而百司群务，其途不一，随时适用，各有攸宜，若非总会众言，无以备兹亲览。
自今台阁省府州郡镇戍应有职僚之所，时共集议，各陈损益，具以奏闻。
中书监王亮卒。
六月癸丑，盗杀宣城太守硃僧勇。
癸酉，以中抚将军、领护军建安王伟为镇南将军、江州刺史。
闰月己丑，宣城盗转寇吴兴县，太守蔡撙讨平之。
秋七月己巳，老人星见。
冬十二月癸未，舆驾幸国子学，策试胄子，赐训授之司各有差。
translation: 
Therefore, it has become a trend to study abroad and study diligently. From time to time, those who have passed the higher A-level examination will appear, and they will be assigned to serve as court officials, and they will be awarded high-ranking officials.
Those who are proficient in one subject and never slack off can be hired according to their ranking after careful examination and verification.
Even people who are good at tending cattle, selling sheep, and people from humble backgrounds should be appointed officials according to their talents, and no one should be left out.
In the seventh month of autumn, Guisi, King Baling Xiao Shiyi passed away.
On Wuwu in August, the star Canopus appeared.
In the winter of October Yisi, the Chinese general Shixing Wang Xiaoqi was appointed as the general of Zhenbei, the governor of South Yanzhou, and the governor of South Yanzhou Changsha Wang Yuanye was appointed as the general of the guard army.
In the spring of the ninth year of the first month of the first lunar month, Yihai, appointed Shangshu Ling and Xing Prince Shaofu as Zuo Guanglu, the Xing Shaofu remained as usual, You Guanglu doctor Dan Ying was appointed as Shangshu Ling, Xing Zhongfu General Jian'an Wang Lanwei led the guard general, Zhenbei General and Nan Yanzhou Governor Shixing Wang Xiaoqi were Zhenxi General and Yizhou Governor, and Taichang Qing Wang Liang was appointed Zhongshu Supervisor.
Bingzi appointed Qingchao General Xiao Gang, King of Jin'an, as the governor of Southern Yanzhou.
Gengyin, a new embankment along the Huai River was built. The north bank started from Shitou to Shuye, and the south bank started from Houzhu Gate to Sanqiao.
In the third month of the lunar month, the Emperor went to the Imperial Academy to study. He visited the lecture hall in person and rewarded the people below the Imperial Academy with different kinds of silk and silk.
At the end of Yi, the edict said: "The prince's study is recorded in the Book of Rites, and the dignitaries belong to the same family. In fact, it is the previous commandment. It is used to promote the correct way of educating children and prospering the teaching."
Nowadays, universities are prosperous, and the prince shows humility to the elderly. From now on, everyone should study their studies.
The sons of crown princes and princes can be admitted to school when they are at an age where they can learn from a teacher.
Khotan sent envoys to present local products.
In the fourth month of summer, at Dingsi, people from humble backgrounds were selected and selected in the five capitals of Shangshu.
Lin Yiguo sent an envoy to present a white monkey.
In the fifth month of the twelfth month of the lunar month, the edict said: I have listened extensively to understand the situation and hope to govern the world, regardless of whether the sun is westward. The various government affairs of the officials will not be handled in the same way. They are suitable for use according to the situation at that time, and each has its own appropriate method. If it is not a gathering of opinions, there will be no preparation for personal management.
From now on, the cabinet, provincial capitals, prefectures, counties, and towns should have offices under the bureaucracy to discuss collectively on time, each state their opinions on the pros and cons, and report the discussion in detail.
Wang Liang, the Superintendent of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, passed away.
In the sixth month of Guichou, thieves killed Zhu Sengyong, the prefect of Xuancheng.
Guiyou appointed General Zhongfu and King of Jian'an, Xiaowei, as General Zhennan and Governor of Jiangzhou.
On the leap month of Jichou, the thieves in Xuancheng turned to plunder Wuxing County, and the prefect Cai Lu attacked and pacified them.
In the seventh month of autumn, Canopus appears.
At the end of the twelfth lunar month in winter, the emperor went to the Guozi School to test the Guozi students, and the officials who rewarded the professors varied.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
十年春正月辛丑，舆驾亲祠南郊，大赦天下，居局治事赐劳二年。
癸卯，以尚书左仆射张稷为安北将军，青冀二州刺史，郢州刺史鄱阳王恢为护军将军。
甲辰，以南徐州刺史豫章王综为郢州刺史，轻车将军南康王绩为南徐州刺史。
戊申，驺虞一，见荆州华容县。
以左民尚书王暕为吏部尚书。
辛酉，舆驾亲祠明堂。
三月辛丑，盗杀东莞、琅邪二郡太守邓晣，以朐山引魏军，遣振远将军马仙琕讨之。
是月，魏徐州刺史卢昶帅众赴朐山。
夏五月癸酉，安豊县获一角玄龟。
丁丑，领军吕僧珍卒。
己卯，以国子祭酒张充为尚书左仆射，太子詹事柳庆远为领军将军。
六月乙酉，嘉莲一茎三花生乐游苑。
秋七月丙辰，诏曰： 昔公卿面陈，载在前史，令仆陛奏，列代明文，所以厘彼庶绩，成兹群务。
晋氏陵替，虚诞为风，自此相因，其失弥远。遂使武帐空劳，无汲公之奏，丹墀徒辟，阙郑生之履。
三槐八座，应有务之百官，宜有所论，可入陈启，庶藉周爰，少匡寡薄。
九月丙申，天西北隆隆有声，赤气下至地。
冬十二月癸酉，山车见于临城县。
庚辰，马仙琕大破魏军，斩馘十余万，克复朐山城。
是岁，初作宫城门三重楼及开二道。
宕昌国遣使献方物。
十一年春正月壬辰，诏曰： 夫刑法悼耄，罪不收孥，礼著明文，史彰前事，盖所以申其哀矜，故罚有弗及。
近代相因，厥网弥峻，髫年华发，同坐入愆。
虽惩恶劝善，宜穷其制，而老幼流离，良亦可愍。
translation: 
In the spring of the tenth year, in the first month of Xinchou, the emperor went to the southern suburbs to offer sacrifices to heaven in person, offered amnesty to the whole world, and stayed in the palace office for two years to administer affairs.
In Guimao, Shangshu Zuopushe Zhang Ji was appointed as General Anbei and Governor of Qingji Prefecture, and Xiao Hui, King of Poyang, Governor of Ying Prefecture, was appointed as General Protector.
In Jiachen, Xiao Zong, the governor of Yuzhang, the governor of South Xuzhou, was appointed the governor of Yingzhou, and Xiao Ji, the king of Nankang, the light chariot general, was appointed the governor of South Xuzhou.
In Wushen, a tiger appeared in Huarong County, Jingzhou.
Appointed Zuo Min Shangshu Wang Chen as Shangshu of the Ministry of Personnel.
Xinyou, the emperor personally came to the Mingtang to offer sacrifices.
In Xinchou in March, bandits killed Deng Xi, the governor of Dongguan and Langye counties, introduced the Northern Wei army from Qushan, and sent General Zhenyuan Ma Xianpi to attack them.
In the first month of the Northern Wei Dynasty, Lu Chang, the governor of Xuzhou in the Northern Wei Dynasty, led his army to Qushan.
In the summer of May, Guiyou, Anfeng County received a black turtle with horns.
Ding Chou and leader Lu Sengzhen passed away.
In Ji Mao, Zhang Chong, the prince of the country to offer wine, was appointed as Shangshu Zuopushe, and Prince Zhan Shiliu Qingyuan was appointed as the leading general.
In June Yiyou, a Jialian with three flowers was born in Leyou Garden.
On Bingchen in the seventh month of the autumn, the edict said: "In the past, the ministers made statements to their faces. There are records in previous history books, and they ordered servants to serve in court. There are clear documents in the past dynasties, and they were used to manage various undertakings and achieve various government affairs."
With the decline of the Jin family, absurdity and nonsense became common. From then on, the trend was followed, and it was lost further and further. Therefore, the curtains with weapons were erected on white trees. There were no official memorials such as Ji Gong, and the red steps of the palace were left empty, lacking the patronage of Zheng Sheng and his ilk.
The three princes and eight high-ranking officials in the imperial court, and all the officials with positions who should have something to discuss, can go to the palace to express their opinions. I hope that this can help me a little to help my meager talents.
On Bingshen in September, there was a rumble in the northwest and red clouds descended to the ground.
On Guiyou day in December in winter, mountain floats appear in Lincheng County.
Gengchen, Ma Xianbei defeated the Northern Wei army, killed more than 100,000 enemies, and recovered Qushan City.
This year, the first three floors of the palace gate were built and a second road was opened.
Dangchang State sent envoys to present local products.
On Renchen, the first month in the spring of the eleventh year, the edict stated: The criminal law is not as good as that of young children and the elderly, and the wife and children are not arrested for crimes. The ritual books contain clear instructions, and the history books clearly state the past events. The sentencing is nothing more than an expression of sympathy, so the punishment is not enough.
In modern times, the law has become more stringent, and young people and old people with gray hair are both implicated and guilty for the same thing.
Although those who punish evil and encourage good should be thoroughly investigated and punished, the homeless old and young should indeed be pitied.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
自今逋谪之家及罪应质作，若年有老小，可停将送。
加左光禄大夫、行太子少傅沈约特进，镇南将军、江州刺史建安王伟仪同三司，司空、扬州刺史临川王宏进位为太尉，骠骑将军王茂为司空，尚书令、云麾将军王莹进号安左将军，安北将军、青冀二州刺史张稷进号镇北将军。
二月戊辰，新昌、济阳二郡野蚕成茧。
三月丁巳，曲赦扬、徐二州。
筑西静坛于钟山。庚申，高丽国遣使献方物。
四月戊子，诏曰： 去岁朐山大歼丑类，宜为京观，用旌武功；但伐罪吊民，皇王盛轨，掩骼埋胔，仁者用心。
其下青州悉使收藏。
百济、扶南、林邑国并遣使献方物。
六月辛巳，以司空王茂领中权将军。
九月辛亥，宕昌国遣使献方物。
冬十一月乙未，以吴郡太守袁昂兼尚书右仆射。
己酉，降太尉、扬州刺史临川王宏为骠骑将军、开府同三司之仪。
癸丑，齐宣德太妃王氏薨。
十二月己未，以安西将军、荆州刺史安成王秀为中卫将军，护军将军鄱阳王恢为平西将军、荆州刺史。
十二年春正月辛卯，舆驾亲祠南郊，赦大辟以下。
二月辛酉，以兼尚书右仆射袁昂为尚书右仆射。
丙寅，诏曰： 掩骼埋胔，义重周经，槥椟有加，事美汉策。
朕向隅载怀，每勤造次，收藏之命，亟下哀矜；而珝县遐深，遵奉未洽，髐然路隅，往往而有，言愍沉枯，弥劳伤恻。
可明下远近，各巡境界，若委骸不葬，或蒢衣莫改，即就收敛，量给棺具。
庶夜哭之魂斯慰，沾霜之骨有归。
辛巳，新作太极殿，改为十三间。
translation: 
From now on, those who are exiled to banished homes and punished for crimes should use people as collateral and serve them. If there are old and young people among them, they can stop being distributed.
In addition, he was granted the title of Dr. Zuo Guanglu, Prince Young Master Shen Yue, General Zhennan, and Prince Jian'an Xiaowei, the governor of Jiangzhou, as the third division of Yitong. Sikong and Yangzhou Governor Xiao Hongjin were promoted to Taiwei, and Hussar General Wang Mao was promoted to Sikong. Shangshu Ling and General Yunhui Wang Yingjin were promoted to General Anzuo. Zhang Jijin, General Anbei and governor of Qingji Prefecture, was promoted to General Zhenbei.
On Wuchen in February, wild silkworms in Xinchang and Jiyang counties formed a shade.
On Dingsi day of March, Yang and Xu states were pardoned.
Build west of Zhongshan and fall down. Gengshen and Zhixing Zhou sent envoys to offer local products.
In the fourth month of the fourth month, Wuzi issued an edict: Last year, when the enemy Chou was wiped out in Qushan, his corpses should be gathered and sealed to build a high tomb in recognition of his martial arts. It was only to defeat the guilty monarch and comfort the suffering people. This is a beautiful example of the ancient sage kings. Burying the dead bones and rotting corpses is the heart of a virtuous person.
Next, Qingzhou will collect and bury all the enemy's corpses.
Baekje, Funan, and Linyi all sent envoys to donate local products.
In the sixth month of Xinsi, Sikong Wangmao was appointed as the general of Zhongquan.
In the ninth month of Xinhai, the Xuanken Kingdom sent envoys to donate local products.
At the end of the eleventh month of the winter, Zhijing, the governor of Chengjun, was appointed as the minister, right servant.
Jiyou, Taiwei and Yangzhou Governor Xiao Hong, the king of Linchuan, was demoted to General of Hussars and Kaifu Tongsansi.
Guichou, Princess Xuande of Southern Qi Dynasty passed away.
At the end of December, General Anxi and King Guisheng Luwai, the governor of Winged Maggot, were appointed as generals of the Central Guards. General Lu Zheng, king of Poyang, was appointed as general Pingxi and governor of Peijie.
In the spring of the twelfth year, on the first day of the lunar month, Xin Mao, the emperor went to the southern suburbs to offer sacrifices to heaven in person and pardoned criminals under death penalty.
In the second month of Xinyou, Yuan Ang, who was also the minister's right servant, was appointed as the minister's right servant.
Bingyin issued an edict: The significance of burying dead bones and corpses was emphasized in Zhou Dynasty classics, and burial in coffins was praised in Han Dynasty slips.
I yearn for and long for you alone, and I often work hard for a while to receive the burial order and express my sympathy. However, the world is far-reaching and it is not widely followed. There are often empty bones on the roadside. I pity the withered bones that have been withered for a long time, and I feel even more sad and sad.
You can clearly order people from far and near to inspect their respective areas. If there are corpses that are abandoned without burial, or if there are corpses that are covered with burnet and have not been reburied, they should be buried nearby immediately, and the coffins and other materials needed to supply the deceased should be measured.
I hope the souls who cry at night can be comforted, and the bones wet with frost can find a home.
In Xinsi, a new Tai Chi Hall was built and changed to thirteen rooms.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
三月癸卯，以湘州刺史王珍国为护军将军。
闰月乙丑，特进、中军将军沈约卒。
夏四月，京邑大水。
六月癸巳，新作太庙，增基九尺。
庚子，太极殿成。
秋九月戊午，以镇南将军、开府仪同三司、江州刺史建安王伟为抚军将军，仪同如故；骠骑将军、开府同三司之仪、扬州刺史临川王宏为司空；领中权将军王茂为骠骑将军、开府同三司之仪、江州刺史。
冬十月丁亥，诏曰： 明堂地势卑湿，未称乃心。
外可量就埤起，以尽诚敬。
十三年春正月壬戌，以丹阳尹晋安王纲为荆州刺史。
癸亥，以平西将军、荆州刺史鄱阳王恢为镇西将军、益州刺史。
丙寅，以翊右将军安成王秀为安西将军、郢州刺史。
二月丁亥，舆驾亲耕籍田，赦天下，孝悌力田赐爵一级。
老人星见。
三月辛亥，以新除中抚将军、开府仪同三司建安王伟为左光禄大夫。
夏四月辛卯，林邑国遣使献方物。
壬辰，以郢州刺史豫章王综为安右将军。
五月辛亥，以通直散骑常侍韦睿为中护军。
六月己亥，以南兗州刺史萧景为领军将军，领军将军柳庆远为安北将军、雍州刺史。
秋七月乙亥，立皇子纶为邵陵郡王，绎为湘东郡王，纪为武陵郡王。
八月癸卯，扶南、于阗国各遣使献方物。
是岁作浮山堰。
十四年春正月乙巳朔，皇太子冠，赦天下，赐为父后者爵一级，王公以下班赉各有差，停远近上庆礼。
丙午，安左将军、尚书令王莹进号中权将军。
以镇西将军始兴王憺为中抚将军。
辛亥，舆驾亲祠南郊。
诏曰： 朕恭祗明祀，昭事上灵，临竹宫而登泰坛，服裘冕而奉苍璧，柴望既升，诚敬克展，思所以对越乾元，弘宣德教；而缺于治道，政法多昧，实伫群才，用康庶绩。
可班下远近，博采英异。
若有确然乡党，独行州闾，肥遁丘园，不求闻达，藏器待时，未加收采；或贤良、方正，孝悌、力田，并即腾奏，具以名上。
translation: 
In the third month of Guimao, Wang Zhenguo, the governor of Xiangzhou, was appointed as the general protecting the army.
In the third month of the intercalary month, Yichou, Te Jin and General Shen Yue of the Chinese Army passed away.
In the summer of April, there were floods in Kyoto.
In the sixth month of Guisi, the Ancestral Temple was built and the foundation was increased by nine feet.
Gengzi, Tai Chi Hall was built.
On the Wuwu day of September in the autumn, General Zhennan, Kaifu Yitong Sansi, and Xingtu Governor Jianbi Wang Lubao were appointed as generals of the Fu army, and Yitong remained as usual; General Hussar, Kaifu Tongsansi Zhiyi, and Yangzhou governor Linchuan Wang Geise were appointed as Sikong; General Yulu, who led the central power, was appointed General Hussar, Kaifu Tongsansi Zhiyi, and Jiangzhou governor.
On Dinghai, the tenth month of winter, the edict was issued: "The terrain of Mingtang is low and humid, which is not suitable for longing."
You can add more after measuring it to show your sincerity and respect.
In the spring of the thirteenth year, in the first month of Renxu, Lu Guo, king of Yin Jin'an in Danyang, was appointed as the governor of Xingzhao.
In Guihai, he appointed General Pingxi and the governor of Jingzhou, Poyang Wang Lu Zheng, as the general of Zhenxi and the governor of Yiye.
Bingyin appointed Yiyou General Xuanxu Wang Luxiu as General Anxi and wrote the governor's history.
On Dinghai in the second month, the emperor personally cultivated his land and granted amnesty to the world. Those who are filial to their parents, respect their elders and those who work hard will be rewarded with a first-level title.
Canopus appears.
In March of 1911, Xiao Wei, the newly appointed General of Zhongfu and Jian'an King of the Third Division of Kaifu Yitong, was appointed as Dr. Zuo Guanglu.
On Xinmao, the fourth month of summer, Takener sent envoys to offer local products.
In Renchen, he appointed King Lu Dian of Yuzhang, the governor of Jianye, as General Anyou.
In the fifth month of Xinhai, Tongzhi Sanqi Chang Shitongsu was appointed as the central guard army.
In June of Jihai, Lu Liang, the governor of Nan Yanzhou, was appointed as the leading general, and Chi Qingda, the leading general, was appointed as the general of Anbei and the governor of Yiye.
In the autumn of July Yihai, the prince Xiao Lun was made the Prince of Shaoling County, Xiao Yi was the Prince of Xiangshu County, and Xiao Ji was the Prince of Wuling County.
In the eighth month of Guimao, Funan and Khotan each sent envoys to donate local products.
This year the Fushan Weir was built.
On the first day of the first lunar month in the spring of the 14th year, the crown prince held a coronation ceremony, granted amnesty to the world, and granted the heir to his father a first-class title. The rewards were different for the princes and below, so auspicious gifts from far and near were carried out.
On Bingwu, General An Zuo and Shangshu Ling Wang Yingjin were promoted to General Zhongquan.
Appoint Zhenxi General Shixing Wang Xiaoqi as Zhongfu General.
In Xinhai, the emperor went to the southern suburbs to worship heaven in person.
The edict said: I treat major sacrifices with respect, serve God diligently, go to the Bamboo Palace and ascend to Tongshan, wear a fur coat and a crown, and hold a jade in my hand.
It can be promulgated from far and near, and people with extraordinary virtues and talents can be recruited.
If there are honest and sincere people in the township party, noble-minded people in the prefecture and noble people, and reclusive people in the hills and gardens, who do not seek to be prominent, but are waiting for the opportunity to show their talents, and have not yet recruited them;


Chunk 16: 
original: 
当擢彼周行，试以邦邑，庶百司咸事，兆民无隐。
又世轻世重，随时约法，前以劓墨，用代重辟，犹念改悔，其路已壅，并可省除。
丙寅，汝阴王刘胤薨。
二月庚寅，芮芮国遣使献方物。
戊戌，老人星见。
辛丑，以中护军韦睿为平北将军、雍州刺史，新除中抚将军始兴王憺为荆州刺史。
夏四月丁丑，骠骑将军、开府同三司之仪、江州刺史王茂薨。
五月丁巳，以荆州刺史晋安王纲为江州刺史。
秋八月乙未，老人星见。
九月癸亥，以长沙王深业为护军将军。
狼牙修国遣使献方物。
十五年春正月己巳，诏曰： 观时设教，王政所先，兼而利之，实惟务本，移风致治，咸由此作。
顷因革之令，随事必下，而张弛之要，未臻厥宜，民瘼犹繁，廉平尚寡，所以伫旒纩而载怀，朝玉帛而兴叹。
可申下四方，政有不便于民者，所在具条以闻。
守宰若清洁可称，或侵渔为蠹，分别奏上，将行黜陟。
长吏劝课，躬履堤防，勿有不修，致妨农事。
关市之赋，或有未允，外时参量，优减旧格。
三月戊辰朔，日有蚀之。
夏四月丁未，以安右将军豫章王综兼护军。
高丽国遣使献方物。
五月癸未，以司空、扬州刺史临川王宏为中书监，骠骑大将军、刺史如故。
六月丙申，改作小庙毕。
庚子，以尚书令王莹为左光禄大夫、开府仪同三司，尚书右仆射袁昂为尚书左仆射，吏部尚书王暕为尚书右仆射。
秋八月，老人星见。
芮芮、河南遣使献方物。
九月辛巳，左光禄大夫、开府仪同三司王莹薨。
壬辰，赦天下。
冬十月戊午，以丹阳尹长沙王深业为湘州刺史。
十一月丁卯，以兼护军豫章王综为安前将军。
交州刺史李畟斩交州反者阮宗孝，传首京师。
translation: 
They should be promoted to serve as court officials and try to serve as local officials. I hope that all officials will be competent and do their jobs well, and that there will be no reclusive people among the people.
Regarding the issue of severity and severity, if the criminal law is simplified in accordance with the current situation, and the death penalty is replaced by the punishment of black and white, and if the person still thinks of repentance, his way out has been blocked, he can be exempted.
Bingyin, Ruyin King Liu Yin passed away.
In the second month of the second month, Gengyin, Ruirui State sent an envoy to present local products.
In 1898, Canopus appeared.
Xin Chou appointed the Central Protector Wei San as General of Pingbei and the Governor of Yuzhou, and the newly appointed General of Central Fu, Shixing Wang Xiao Dan, as the Governor of Jingzhou.
In the fourth month of summer, Ding Chou, General of Hussars, Kaifu Tongsansi Zhiyi, and Jiangzhou Governor Wang Mao passed away.
In the fifth month of Dingsi, Xiao Gang, the king of Jin'an, the governor of Jingzhou, was appointed the governor of Jiangzhou.
At the end of August in autumn, Canopus appears.
In September of Guihai, Wang Yuanye of Changsha was appointed as the general of the army.
Langya Xiuguo sent envoys to donate local products.
At the end of the first month of the spring of the fifteenth year, the edict stated: Observing the current situation and implementing enlightenment was first advocated by the monarch's decree. To benefit from both, it is actually dedicated to the fundamentals, changing the atmosphere and achieving governance, and it all arises from this.
Recently, orders regarding tradition and reform have been promulgated according to the changes in the surrounding things. However, the exploration of the rise and fall of things has not been done appropriately. The people are still suffering a lot, and there is still little integrity and fairness. Therefore, I have been watching and listening for a long time and thinking about it. I hold the jade silk and go to the meeting and sigh.
You can order the four parties to report in details the places where political affairs are not conducive to the people.
If a local governor is commendable for being honest and honest, or if he robs and causes harm to the country and the people, he will be dismissed or promoted if reported separately.
The chief officials should encourage and supervise the responsibilities and patrol the embankments in person. There should not be any unrepaired areas that would hinder farming.
If the taxes imposed by the customs city may be inappropriate, the foreign officials must always consider and relax the old regulations.
At the beginning of Wuchen in March? A solar eclipse occurs.
At the end of April in the summer, General An You and Wang Xiao Zong of Yu Zhang were appointed to guard the army.
Korea sent envoys to donate local products.
In the fifth month of Guiwei, Sikong and Yangzhou Governor Lin Wang Xiaohong were appointed as the Central Secretary Supervisors, while the Hussar General and the Governor remained as usual.
In June Bingshen, the reconstruction of the small temple was completed.
Gengzi appointed Shangshu Ling Wang Ying as Zuo Guanglu doctor and Kaifu Yitong three divisions, Shangshu right servant Yuan Ang as Shangshu Zuopushe, and the official minister Wang Lai as Shangshu right servant.
In autumn, in August, Canopus appears.
Ruirui and Henan sent envoys to donate local products.
In the ninth month of Xinsi, Dr. Zuo Guanglu, Kaifu Yi and Wang Ying of the third division passed away.
Renchen, grant amnesty to the world.
On the Wuwu day of October in winter, Wang Yuanye of Danyang Yin Changsha was appointed as the governor of Xiangzhou.
On Dingmao in November, Xiao Zong, the king of Yuzhang who also served as the bodyguard of the army, was appointed General Anqian.
Li Yi, the governor of Jiaozhou, killed the rebel Ruan Zongxiao in Jiaozhou and sent his head to Kyoto.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
曲赦交州。
壬午，以雍州刺史韦睿为护军将军。
十六年春正月辛未，舆驾亲祠南郊，诏曰： 朕当扆思治，政道未明，昧旦劬劳，亟移星纪。
今太皞御气，句芒首节，升中就阳，禋敬克展，务承天休，布兹和泽。
尤贫之家，勿收今年三调。
其无田业者，所在量宜赋给。
若民有产子，即依格优蠲。
孤老鳏寡不能自存，咸加赈恤。
班下四方。
诸州郡县，时理狱讼，勿使冤滞，并若亲览。
二月庚戌，老人星见，甲寅，以安前将军豫章王综为南徐州刺史。
三月丙子，河南王遣使献方物。
夏四月甲子，初去宗庙牲。
潮沟获白雀一。
六月戊申，以庐陵王绩为江州刺史。
七月丁丑，以郢州刺史安成王秀为镇北将军、雍州刺史。
八月辛丑，老人星见。
扶南、婆利国各遣使献方物。
冬十月，去宗庙荐修，始用蔬果。
十七年春正月丁巳朔，诏曰： 夫乐所自生，含识之常性；厚下安宅，驭世之通规。
朕矜此庶氓，无忘待旦，亟弘生聚之略，每布宽恤之恩；而编户未滋，迁徙尚有，轻去故乡，岂其本志？
资业殆阙，自返莫由，巢南之心，亦何能弭。
今开元发岁，品物惟新，思俾黔黎，各安旧所。
将使郡无旷土，邑靡游民，鸡犬相闻，桑柘交畛。
凡天下之民，有流移他境，在天监十七年正月一日以前，可开恩半岁，悉听还本，蠲课三年。
其流寓过远者，量加程日。
若有不乐还者，即使著土籍为民，准旧课输。
若流移之后，本乡无复居宅者，村司三老及余亲属，即为诣县，占请村内官地官宅，令相容受，使恋本者还有所托。
凡坐为市埭诸职，割盗衰灭，应被封籍者，其田宅车牛，是民生之具，不得悉以没入，皆优量分留，使得自止。
其商贾富室，亦不得顿相兼并。
translation: 
Amnesty to the state.
In Renwu, Wei Fu, the governor of Yongzhou, was appointed as the general guarding the army.
At the end of the first lunar month in the spring of the 16th year, the emperor went to the southern suburbs to worship heaven in person. Shao Ling said: I came to the court to listen to the government and wanted to govern the world. The political principles were unclear, so I started working hard at dawn. It has been several spring and autumn periods.
Nowadays, just like Taihao riding the wind and Jumang making his first achievements, he worships the sky like sunflowers and flowers to express his pious respect, receive the blessings from heaven, and spread the virtues that benefit the people.
The extremely poor families will not receive this year's grain, millet, silk, and miscellaneous grains.
Those who do not have land will be distributed according to their location.
If any of the common people have children, taxes will be reduced according to the system.
The old, weak, widowers and widowers who cannot stand on their own will be given relief.
Promulgated to all directions.
All states, counties, and counties must hear cases in a timely manner and avoid unjust cases that remain unfiled, as if I were handling them myself.
In February Gengxu, the star Canopus appeared. In Jiayin, Xiao Zong, the former general of An, and king of Yuzhang, was appointed as the governor of Southern Xuzhou.
On Bingzi of the third month, the King of Henan sent an envoy to present local products.
In the fourth month of the summer, sacrifices in ancestral temples began to be cancelled.
Tide Valley gets a white sparrow.
In the sixth month of Wushen, Xiao Xu, king of Luling, was appointed governor of Jiangzhou.
In July, Ding Chou appointed Wang Xiaoxiu, the governor of Yingzhou, as the general of Zhenbei and the governor of Yongzhou.
In the Xin Chou month of August, Canopus appears.
Funan and Poli each sent envoys to donate local products.
In October of winter, the ancestral temples no longer offer dried meat, and instead use fruits and vegetables.
On the first day of the first lunar month in the spring of the seventeenth year, the edict was issued: "Happiness comes from oneself and is the nature of all living beings; making the people live and work in abundance and contentment is the general principle for governing the world."
I sympathize with the people and never forget to wait for them. I have repeatedly expanded the strategy of multiplying the population to accumulate material resources, and have always given generous and considerate favors. However, the number of registered people has not increased, and there are still migrations. Is it their original intention to leave their hometown easily?
With a lack of assets and property, he has no way to return, and how can he stop his desire to live in the south.
Now, one year after the founding of the country, everything is renewed, and I want the people to settle down in their old homes.
There will be no wasteland in the county, no wandering people in the city, the sound of dogs and dogs can be heard, and mulberry trees and eucalyptus trees will be planted side by side.
All people in the world who migrate to other areas can be granted mercy for half a year before the first day of the first month of the seventeenth year of the Heavenly Prison, allowing them to return to their homeland and be exempted from taxes for three years.
For those who live too far away from home, consider extending the date of their journey.
If someone is unwilling to return, taxes will still be levied even if they are registered as permanent residents in the local household registration.
If after the migration, there is no longer a house in the hometown, the village chief, reputable elders and other relatives will go to the county government office to review the public land and houses in the village and request for accommodation and acceptance, so that they can have a basis for returning to the hometown.
Anyone who is found guilty of embezzlement and theft of taxes by city officials, resulting in a reduction in tax revenue, should register the confiscated property. Among them, fields, houses, vehicles, and cattle are the tools of people's livelihood. They must not be confiscated to the officials in their entirety. They must consider how to leniently keep them so that they can live and settle down.
Those merchants who buy wealthy households are not allowed to merge with each other.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
遁叛之身，罪无轻重，并许首出，还复民伍。
若有拘限，自还本役。
并为条格，咸使知闻。
二月癸巳，镇北将军、雍州刺史安成王秀薨。
甲辰，大赦天下。
乙卯，以领石头戍事南康王绩为南兗州刺史。
三月甲申，老人星见。
丙申，改封建安王伟为南平王。
夏五月戊寅，骠骑大将军、扬州刺史临川王宏免。
己卯、干利国遣使献方物。
以领军将军萧景为安右将军，监扬州。
辛巳，以临川王宏为中军将军、中书监。
六月乙酉，以益州刺史鄱阳王恢为领军将军。
中军将军，中书监临川王宏以本号行司徒。
癸卯，以国子祭酒蔡撙为吏部尚书。
秋八月壬寅，老人星见。
诏以兵驺奴婢，男年登六十，女年登五十，免为平民。
冬十月乙亥，以中军将军、行司徒临川王宏为中书监、司徒。
十一月辛亥，以南平王伟为左光禄大夫、开府仪同三司。
十八年春正月甲申，以领军将军鄱阳王恢为征西将军、开府仪同三司、荆州刺史，荆州刺史始兴王憺为中抚将军、开府仪同三司、领军。
以尚书左仆射袁昂为尚书令，尚书右仆射王暕为尚书左仆射，太子詹事徐勉为尚书右仆射。
辛卯，舆驾亲祠南郊，孝悌力田赐爵一级。
二月戊午，老人星见。
四月丁巳，大赦天下。
秋七月甲申，老人星见。
于阗、扶南国各遣使献方物。
translation: 
Those who defected, regardless of the severity of their crime, were allowed to surrender and return to the ranks of civilians.
If anyone is detained, he will naturally return to serve in his original service.
Let these be established together as a law, so that all men may know them.
In February Guisi, Xiao Xiu, the general of Zhenbei and the governor of Yongzhou, died.
On Jiachen, the world is amnesty.
In Yimao, Xiao Ji, the king of Nankang who led the stone garrison, was appointed as the governor of Southern Yanzhou.
In March Jiashen, the star Canopus appears.
In Bingshen, Xiao Wei, the feudal king of An, was changed to the king of Nanping.
In the fifth month of the summer, Xiao Hong, the general of the Hussars and the governor of Yangzhou, Linchuan Wang, was dismissed from his post.
In Ji Mao, the Qian Chao Li Kingdom sent envoys to offer local products.
Xiao Jing, the leading general, was appointed as General An You and supervised Yang Cong.
Xin Si appointed Linchuan Wang Lansai as General of the Central Army and Superintendent of the Central Secretary.
In June Yiyou, Xiao Hui, king of Poyang, the governor of Yizhou, was appointed as the leading general.
Xiao Hong, the general of the Chinese army and the eunuch of the Zhongshu, the king of Linchuan, served as Situ with his official title.
In Guimao, Cai Lu, the son of the country, was appointed as the minister of the Ministry of official affairs.
In the autumn of August, Renyin, the star Canopus appeared.
The imperial edict ordered the soldiers to serve as slaves. Men over the age of sixty and women over the age of fifty were exempted from being civilians.
On the 11th day of the 10th month of the winter, Xiao Hong, the General of the Chinese Army and the Situ Lin Wang, was appointed as the Superintendent and Situ of the Zhongshu.
In November of 1911, Xiao Wei, king of Nanping, was appointed as Dr. Zuo Guanglu and Kaifu Yitong.
In the spring of the 18th year of the first lunar month of Jiashen, the leading general Xiao Chu of Poyang was appointed as the general of Zhengxi, the third division of Kaifu Yitong, and the governor of Jingzhou. The governor of Jingsu, Wang Xingwang Lushan, was appointed as the general of Zhongfu, the third division of Kaifu Yitong, and the leader.
Yuan Ang was appointed Shangshu Ling, Zuopushe, Shangshu Youpushe Wang Wei was appointed Shangshu Zuopushe, and Prince Zhan Shixu Mian was appointed Shangshu Youpushe.
On Xin Mao, the emperor went to the southern suburbs to offer sacrifices to heaven in person. Those who were filial and loyal to the land were granted a first-level title.
On Wuwu in February, the star Canopus appeared.
On Dingsi in April, there is a general amnesty for the whole world.
In autumn, in the seventh month of Jiashen, the star Canopus appears.
Gonghe and Dielanyuan each sent envoys to donate local products.


