Chunk 0: 
original: 
郭太符融许劭郭太字林宗，太原界休人也。
家世贫贱。早孤，母欲使给事县廷。
林宗曰： 大丈夫焉能处斗筲之役乎？
遂辞。
就成皋屈伯彦学，三年业毕，博通坟籍。
善谈论，美音制。
乃游于洛阳。始见河南尹李膺，膺大奇之，遂相友善，于是名震京师。
后归乡里，衣冠诸儒送至河上，车数千两。
林宗唯与李膺同舟共济，众宾望之，以为神仙焉。
司徒黄琼辟，太常赵典举有道。
或劝林宗仕进者，对曰： 吾夜观乾象，昼察人事，天之所废，不可支也。
遂并不应。
性明知人，好奖训士类。
身长八尺，容貌魁伟，褒衣博带，周游郡国。
尝于陈梁间行遇雨，巾一角垫，时人乃故折巾一角，以为 林宗巾 。其见慕皆如此。
或问汝南范滂曰： 郭林宗何如人？
滂曰： 隐不违亲，贞不绝俗，天子不得臣，诸侯不得友，吾不知其它。
后遭母忧，有至孝称。
林宗虽善人伦，而不为危言核论，故宦官擅政而不能伤也。
乃党事起，知名之士多被其害，唯林宗及汝南袁闳得免焉。
遂闭门教授，弟子以千数。
建宁元年，太傅陈蕃、大将军窦武为阉人所害，林宗哭之于野，恸。
既而叹曰：  人之云亡，邦国殄瘁 。 瞻乌爰止，不知于谁之屋 耳。
明年春，卒于家，时年四十二。
四方之士千余人，皆来会葬。
同志者乃共刻石立碑，蔡邕为其文，既而谓涿郡卢植曰： 吾为碑铭多矣，皆有惭德，唯郭有道无愧色耳。
其奖拔士人，皆如所鉴。
后之好事，或附益增张，故多华辞不经，又类卜相之书。
今录其章章效于事者。著之篇末。
左原者，陈留人也，为郡学生，犯法见斥。
translation: 
◆Guo Taichuan, named Lin Zong, was born in Jiexiu, Taiyuan. Family background is poor and humble.
His father died early, and his mother wanted him to work in the county.
Lin Zong said: How can a man engage in such a despicable job?
Just quit.
He studied with Chenggao Qu Boyan, graduated in three years, and became well-versed in many books.
He is good at speaking, eloquent, and has a loud voice.
While traveling in Luoyang, he first met Li Ying of Henan Province. Li Ying praised him greatly, and they became good friends and became famous in the capital.
Later, when I returned to my hometown, the scholar-bureaucrats and Confucian scholars brought thousands of cars to the river.
Guo Linzong only crossed the river with Li Ying in the same boat. The guests seeing him off looked at them like gods.
Situ Huang Qiong recruited him, and Taichang Zhao Dianju was wise.
Someone advised Guo Linzong to become an official. Lin Zong replied: I watch the sky at night and investigate social and human affairs during the day. It is unsupportable to abandon the destiny.
So, he didn't respond.
He is talented in understanding people and likes to reward and educate scholars.
He is eight feet long, has a tall and majestic appearance, wears loose clothes and wears a large belt, and travels around the country.
I once walked between Chen and Liang, and when it rained, I folded a corner of the towel and put it up. At that time, people also learned to deliberately fold a corner of the towel, which was called Lin Zongjin. Most people admired it like this.
Someone asked Fan Pang of Runan: What kind of person is Guo Linzong?
Fan Pang said: Living in seclusion like Jie Zitui does not violate the mother's will; serving as an official is like Liu Xiahui, who is loyal and not pretentious. The emperor cannot treat him as a minister, and the princes cannot treat him as a friend. Others, I don't know.
Later, his mother died and he had a reputation of being extremely filial.
Although Guo Linzong was good at identifying and criticizing people, he did not make passionate and profound discussions, so the eunuch dictatorship could not harm him.
The party disaster arose, and most of the famous people suffered from it. Only Guo Linzong and Runan Yuan Hong were spared.
So he taught behind closed doors and had thousands of students.
In the first year of Jianning, Taifu Chen Fan and General Dou Wu were killed by eunuchs. Guo Linzong cried in the wild and was extremely sad.
Because he sighed and said: When people die, the country is also in danger.  The crow landed on that person's house.
In the spring of the next year, he died at home at the age of forty-two.
More than a thousand people from all over the world came to pay their respects to the funeral.
The comrades then carved a stone and erected a stele together, and Cai Yong wrote the inscription. When it was completed, he said to Lu Zhi of Zhuojun: I have written many inscriptions! Everyone felt a little ashamed, but Guo Youdao was the only one who didn't feel ashamed.
The scholars rewarded and selected by Guo Linzong were all as he appraised.
He speaks first and then proves it, and everyone admires him. Later, those who liked to appreciate characters might add exaggerations, so there were some flashy and grotesque words added, just like a book of divination.
Now I record the facts that clearly show effect and write them at the end of the article.
Zuo Yuan, Chen Liuren. As a county student, he broke the law and was expelled.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
林宗尝遇诸路，为设酒肴以慰之。
谓曰： 昔颜涿聚梁甫之巨盗，段干木晋国之大驵，卒为齐之忠臣，魏之名贤。
蘧瑗、颜回尚不能无过，况其余乎？
慎勿恚恨，责躬而已。
原纳其言而去。
或有讥林宗不绝恶人者。
对曰： 人而不仁，疾之以甚，乱也。 原后忽更怀忿，结客欲报诸生。
其日林宗在学，原愧负前言，因遂罢去。
后事露，众人咸谢服焉。茅容字季伟，陈留人也。
年四十余，耕于野，时与等辈避雨树下，众皆夷踞相对，容独危坐愈恭。
林宗行见之而奇其异，遂与共言，因请寓宿。
旦日，容杀鸡为馔，林宗谓为己设，既而以供其母，自以草蔬与客同饭。
林宗起拜之曰： 卿贤乎哉！
因劝令学，卒以成德。
孟敏字叔达，钜鹿杨氏人也。
客居太原。荷甑墯地，不顾而去。
林宗见而问其意。对曰： 甑以破矣，视之何益？
林宗以此异之，因劝令游学。
十年知名，三公俱辟，并不屈云。
庾乘字世游，颍川鄢陵人也。
少给事县廷为门士。林宗见而拔之，劝游学官，遂为诸生佣。
后能讲论，自以卑第，每处下坐，诸生博士皆就雠问，由是学中以下坐为贵。
后征辟并不起，号曰 征君 。
宋果字仲乙，扶风人也。
性轻悍，憙与人殷仇，为郡县所疾。
林宗乃训之义方，惧以祸败。
果感悔，叩头谢负，遂改节自敕。
后以烈气闻，辟公府，侍御史、并州刺史，所在能化。
贾淑字子厚，林宗乡人也。
虽世有冠冕，而性险害，邑里患之。
translation: 
Guo Linzong once met him on the road and held a banquet to comfort him.
He said to him: In the past, Yan Zhuoju was a big thief of Liang Fu, and Duan Qianmu was a big market broker in the Jin State. In the end, he became a loyal minister of the Qi State and a famous sage in the Wei State.
Qu Yuan and Yan Hui are not without faults, let alone ordinary people?
Don't be angry, just ask yourself and blame yourself.
Zuo Yuan accepted his opinion and left.
Some people also ridiculed Guo Linzong for associating with bad people. He replied: If a person is unkind, hating him too harshly will force him to do more bad things.
Later, Zuo Yuan suddenly became more resentful and gathered guests to take revenge on all living beings.
Guo Linzong was at school that day. Zuo Yuan felt ashamed that he had failed to live up to what Guo Linzong had said before, so he left.
Later the story leaked out and everyone thanked him. Mao Rong, courtesy name Jiwei, was born in Chenliu.
In his forties, he was plowing in the wild. At that time, he and his peers were sheltering from the rain under a tree. Everyone was squatting facing each other, and Mao Rong was sitting alone, very respectful.
Guo Linzong felt strange when he saw that he was different from everyone else. Because of the conversation with him, Mao Rong invited Lin Zong to stay at his house.
The next morning, Mao Rong killed a chicken and made vegetables. Lin Zong thought it was for him. Later he found out that it was for his mother, and he used vegetables to eat with the guests.
Guo Linzong bowed to him and said, "You are so wise!"
Because he persuaded him to study, he finally became a moral person.
Meng Min, courtesy name Shuda, was a native of Yang County, Julu County.
When he was a guest in Taiyuan, he was carrying a steamer. The steamer accidentally fell to the ground and broke. He left without even looking at it.
Guo Linzong saw him and asked what he meant. Meng Min replied: The steamer is broken, what's the use of it?
Guo Linzong believed that Meng Min was not an ordinary person and advised him to study abroad.
After ten years of becoming famous, he was recruited by all three princes, but none of them went.
Yucheng, whose courtesy name was Shiyou, was from Yanling County, Yingchuan County.
When he was young, he worked as a servant in the county. Guo Linzong saw him, promoted him, and persuaded him to study as an official because all students were doing odd jobs.
Later, when he was able to lecture on knowledge, he thought that he was from a humble background and often sat in the lower seat. Students and doctors asked him questions, so in the school, he was regarded as the most respected person in the lower seat.
Later, when the imperial court called for him, he didn't answer the call. People called him "Zhengjun".
Song Guo, courtesy name Zhongyi, was born in Fufeng.
He has a strong personality and likes to avenge others and cause suffering for the county.
Guo Linzong then taught him the right way of life and threatened him with disaster and failure.
Song Guo was moved by him and repented, kowtowed and admitted his mistake. Therefore, correct your evil ways and discipline yourself.
Later, he became famous for his uprightness. He was recruited by the government and served as a censor and governor of Bingzhou. Wherever he went, he taught widely.
Jia Shu, whose courtesy name is Zihou, is a fellow villager of Guo Linzong.
Although he comes from a family that has been officials for generations, his character is sinister and the village is troubled by him.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
林宗遭母忧。淑来修吊，既而钜鹿孙威直亦至。
威直以林宗贤而受恶人吊，心怪之，不进而去。
林宗追而谢之曰： 贾子厚诚实凶德，然洗心向善。
仲尼不逆互乡，故吾许其进也。
淑闻之，改过自厉，终成善士。
乡里有忧患者，淑辄倾身营救，为州闾所称。
史叔宾者，陈留人也。
少有盛名。
林宗见而告人曰： 墙高基下，虽得必失。
后果以论议阿枉败名云。
黄允字子艾，济阴人也。
以俊才知名。
林宗见而谓曰： 卿有绝人之才，足成伟器。
然恐守道不笃，将失之矣。
后司徒袁隗欲为从女求姻，见允而叹曰： 得婿如是足矣。
允闻而黜遣其妻夏侯氏。
妇谓姑曰： 今当见弃，方与黄氏长辞，乞一会亲属，以展离诀之情。
于是大集宾客三百余人，妇中坐，攘袂数允隐匿秽恶十五事，言毕，登车而去。
允以此废于时。
谢甄字子微，汝南召陵人也。
与陈留边让并善谈论，俱有盛名。
每共候林宗，未尝不连日达夜。林宗谓门人曰： 二子英才有余，而并不入道，惜乎！
甄后不拘细行，为时所毁。
让以轻侮曹操，操杀之。
王柔字叔优，弟泽，字季道，林宗同郡晋阳县人也。
兄弟总角共候林宗，以访才行所宜。
林宗曰： 叔优当以仕进显，季道当以经术通，然违方改务，亦不能至也。
后果如所言，柔为护匈奴中郎将，泽为代郡太守。
而林宗雅俗无所失，将其明性特有主乎？
然而逊言危行，终享时晦，恂恂善导，使士慕成名，虽墨、孟之徒，不能绝也。符融字伟明，陈留浚仪人也。少为都官吏，耻之，委去。
后游太学，师事少府李膺。
膺风性高简，每见融，辄绝它宾客，听其言论。
融幅巾奋袖，谈辞如云，膺每捧手叹息。
郭林宗始入京师，时人莫识，融一见嗟服，因以介于李膺，由是知名。
时汉中晋文经、梁国黄子艾，并恃其才智，炫曜上京，卧托养疾，无所通接。
translation: 
Guo Linzong's mother passed away, Jia Shu went to express condolences, and later Julu Sun Weizhi also arrived.
Sun Weizhi thought that Guo Linzong was a virtuous man but accepted the condolences of a wicked man. He felt strange and left without entering the house.
Guo Linzong caught up with Sun Weizhi and said: Jia Zihou is indeed a bad person, but he has changed his mind and changed his mind.
Zhongni does not refuse to visit home, so I allow him to come in.
Jia Shu listened, changed her ways, encouraged herself, and eventually became a good person.
When there were people in distress in the village, Jia Shu often tried her best to rescue them, and was praised by the governor.
Shi Shubin, Chen Liuren.
He was famous when he was young.
Guo Linzong told people when he met: "The wall is high but the foundation is low. Even if you gain something, you will definitely lose it."
Later, he really lost his reputation because of his flattery.
Huang Yun, courtesy name Ziai, was born in Jiyang.
Famous for his outstanding talents.
Guo Linzong met him and said: You have extraordinary talents and can become a great weapon.
However, I'm afraid that if you don't stick to the truth, you may lose what you gain.
Later, Situ Yuan Wei wanted to propose to his niece. When he saw Huang Yun, he sighed and said, "I am so satisfied with my son-in-law."
When Huang Yun heard about it, he dismissed his wife Xiahou.
Xiahou said to her aunt: Now that I have been abandoned, I will break up with Huang Yun. I will invite relatives to express my feelings of separation.
So there were more than 300 guests gathered. Xiahou sat in the middle, rolled up his sleeves and counted Huang Yun's fifteen filthy and evil things. After that, he took the car and left.
Huang Yun was despised by people at the time.
Xie Zhen, courtesy name Ziwei, was from Zhaoling County, Runan County.
Both Chen Liu and Bian Rang were good at talking and both were famous.
Chang Tong always went to see Guo Linzong day and night. Guo Linzong said to his disciples: These two people are talented, but neither of them has entered Taoism. What a pity!
Xie Zhen later failed to pay attention to details and was attacked by public opinion.
Bian Rang was killed by Cao Cao for insulting Cao Cao.
Wang Rou, also known as Shuyou, and his younger brother Wang Ze, named Jidao, were from Jinyang County in the same county as Guo Linzong.
When the brothers were young, they went to see Lin Zong together and asked each other about the direction of talent development.
Lin Zong said: Shuyou should make a fortune as an official, and Ji Dao should become famous for his expertise in Confucian classics. However, changing direction and doing something else will not reach this point.
Later, as he said, Wang Rou served as a protector of the Xiongnu Zhonglang General, and Wang Ze became the prefect of Daijun.
He also met Zhang Xiaozhong among the woodcutters and herders, and met Fan Tezu in the post office. Zhao Gongzi and Xu Wei were both butchers and wine servants, while Sima Ziwei was an ordinary soldier.
As well as sixty people from the same county, including Guo Changxin, Wang Changwen, Han Wenbu, Li Zizheng, Cao Ziyuan, Dingxiang Zhou Kangzi, Xihe Wang Jiran, Yunzhongqiu Jizhi, Hao Lizhen, etc., all became famous because of him. ◆The biography of Fulong, whose courtesy name is Weiming, was from Junyi, Chenliu County. When he was young, he served as a capital official. He thought it was shameful and abandoned him.
Later, he traveled to Taixue and became a teacher of Shaofu Li Ying.
Li Ying had a noble and pure temperament. Every time he met with Fulong, he often declined other guests and listened to Fulong's words.
Fulong waved his sleeves and talked fluently, while Li Ying often held his hands and sighed.
Guo Linzong began to go to the capital, and he didn't know each other at the time. Fulong admired him when he met him, and introduced him to Li Ying. Guo Linzong became famous all over the world.
At that time, Wenjing of Jin Dynasty in Hanzhong and Huang Ziai of Liang Dynasty all relied on their talents to show off to the capital, and excused themselves to stay home due to illness and did not receive guests.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
洛中士大夫好事者，承其声名，坐门问疾，犹不得见。
三公所辟召者，辄以询访之，随所臧否，以为与夺。
融察其非真，乃到太学，并见李膺曰： 二子行业无闻，以豪桀自置，遂使公卿问疾，王臣坐门。
融恐其小道破义，空誉违实，特宜察焉。
膺然之。
二人自是名论渐衰，宾徒稍省，旬日之间，惭叹逃去。
后果为轻薄子，并以罪废弃。
融益以知名。
州郡礼请，举孝廉，公府连辟，皆不应。
太守冯岱有名称，到官，请融相见。
融一往，荐达郡士范冉、韩卓、孔亻由等三人，因辞病自绝。
会有党事，亦遭禁锢。
妻亡，贫无殡敛，乡人欲为具棺服，融不肯受。
曰： 古之亡者，弃之中野。
唯妻子可以行志，但即土埋藏而已。
融同郡田盛，字仲向，与郭林宗同好，亦名知人，优游不仕，并以寿终。
许劭字子将，汝南平舆人也。
少峻名节，好人伦，多所赏识。
若樊子昭、和阳士者，并显名于世。
故天下言拔士者，咸称许、郭。
初为郡功曹，太守徐甚敬之。
府中闻子将为吏，莫不改操饰行。同郡袁绍，公族豪侠，去濮阳令归，车徒甚盛，将入郡界，乃谢遣宾客，曰： 吾舆服岂可使许子将见。
遂以单车归家。
劭尝到颍川，多长者之游，唯不候陈寔。
又陈蕃丧妻还葬，乡人毕至，而邵独不往。
或问其故，劭曰： 太丘道广，广则难周；仲举性峻，峻则少通。
故不造也。
其多所裁量若此。
曹操微时，常卑辞厚礼，求为己目。
translation: 
Sergeant Luo, a nosy doctor, admired his reputation and sat outside his door to ask questions, but did not receive him.
Sangong was recruited and often visited him, using what they said was good or bad as a criterion for choosing.
Fulong understood that there was a lie in it, so he went to Taixue and met with Li Ying. He said: "I have not heard that these two people have any virtues, and they consider themselves heroes. Therefore, I sent the minister to ask about their illness. Wang Chen sat outside the door and asked to receive him."
I'm afraid they are heresy, with false reputations and no facts. We should examine them carefully!
Li Ying thinks it is right.
From then on, the reputation of the two gradually declined, and there were fewer guests and disciples. Within ten days, they ran away with a sigh of shame.
Later I found out that they were really frivolous boys and both were abandoned for committing crimes.
Fulong became more famous because of this.
The prefectures and counties invited him with courtesy and commended him for his filial piety and integrity. The government summoned him many times, but he failed.
The prefect Feng Dai was famous. When he arrived, he asked Fulong to meet him.
As soon as Fulong left, he recommended three county officials, including Fan Ran, Han Zhuo, and Kong Qianyou, but excused themselves from contact with the prefect because of illness.
In case of party disaster, he was also banned from serving as an official.
His wife died, and she was too poor to bury her. The villagers wanted to help him organize a coffin, but Fulong refused to accept it.
Said: In ancient times, dead people were thrown into the wild.
Only my wife can carry out my will, so let me bury her in the ground.
Tian Sheng, whose courtesy name was Zhongxiang, was from the same county as Fulong. He was close to Guo Linzong and had a good understanding of people. He did not hold an official position and was carefree and died at home.
◆The biography of Xu Shao, named Zijiang, was from Pingyu County, Runan County.
When he was young, he established a reputation, was morally responsible, liked to talk about people, and was appreciated by many people.
For example, Fan Zizhao and He Yangshi were all famous at that time.
He began to serve as a meritorious officer in the county, and the prefect Xu Chu respected him very much.
When I heard that my son was going to be an official, there was no one in the government who would not change his conduct and be careful about his words and deeds.
Yuan Shao, a member of the same county, was a noble knight. He left the Puyang Order and returned home with a large number of carriages and horses. He was very luxurious. When he was about to enter the county, he sent away the guests and others and said, "Can Xu Zijian see my carriage and horse attire like this?"
So I just took a car back home.
Xu Shao once went to Yingchuan, and the people who traveled with him were some moral and knowledgeable elders. He did not visit Chen Chen alone.
Chen Fan's wife died and she returned to her hometown for burial. Everyone in the village went to attend the funeral, but Xu Shao did not go.
Someone asked him why, and Xu Shao said: Taiqiu's Taoism is too broad, and it is hard to be thorough in wideness; Zhongju has a severe temperament, and he cannot be thorough in Jun.
So I won't go.
Most of his comments on people are like this.
When Cao Cao didn't want to make a name for himself, he once made generous gifts and humbly asked Xu Shao to talk to him.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
劭鄙其人而不肯对，操乃伺隙胁劭，劭不得已，曰： 君清平之奸贼，乱世之英雄。
操大悦而去。
劭从祖敬，敬子训，训子相，并为三公，相以能谄事宦官，故自致台司封侯，数遣请劭。劭恶其薄行，终不候之。
劭邑人李逵，壮直有高气，劭初善之，而后为隙，又与从兄靖不睦，时议以此少之。
初，劭与靖俱有高名，好共核论乡党人物，每月辄更其品题，故汝南俗有 月旦评 焉。
司空杨彪辟，举方正、敦朴，征，皆不就。
或劝劭仕，对曰： 方今小人道长，王室将乱，吾欲避地淮海，以全老幼。
乃南到广陵。
徐州刺史陶谦礼之甚厚。
劭不自安，告其徒曰： 陶恭祖外慕声名，内非真正。
待吾虽厚，其势必薄。不如去之。
遂复投扬州刺史刘繇于曲阿。
其后陶谦果捕诸寓士。乃孙策平吴，劭与繇南奔豫章而卒。时年四十六。
兄虔亦知名，汝南人称平舆渊有二龙焉。
translation: 
Xu Shao looked down on him and refused to speak, so Cao Cao found an opportunity to threaten Xu Shao. Xu Shao had no choice but to say, "You are a traitor in a time of peace and a hero in a time of trouble."
Cao Cao left very happily.
Xu Shao's uncle Xu Jing, Xu Jing's son Xu Xun, and Xu Xiang were all ministers of the Three Dukes. Because Xu Xiang flattered the eunuchs, he went to Taisi to grant him the title of Marquis. He sent people to invite Xu Shao many times. Xu Shao thought that Xu Xiang had no virtue and behaved abominably, so he never visited him.
Li Kui, a native of the same county as Xu Shao, was upright and had noble ambitions. Xu Shao began to be friendly with him, but later they had conflicts and discord with his brother Xu Jing. Public opinion at that time was dissatisfied with him.
At first, Xu Shao and Xu Jing were both well-known and liked to comment on township party figures. They changed the topic every month, so there was a custom of commenting on the first day of the month in Runan.
When Sikong Yang Biao summoned Xu Shao, he promoted him as upright, upright, and honest, but he failed to respond.
Someone advised Xu Shao to become an official. He replied: "Now that the villain has succeeded, the royal family will be in chaos. I want to go to Huaihai to escape to save the children and the elderly."
So we went south to Guangling.
Tao Qian, the governor of Xuzhou, treated each other with courtesy and was extremely considerate.
Xu Shao felt uneasy and told his disciples: "Tao Gongzu has a good reputation on the surface, but he is not true in his heart."
Although it is very kind to me, this situation cannot last long, so it is better to leave.
So he went to Qu'a to join Liu Yao, the governor of Yangzhou.
Later, Tao Qian indeed captured the guests who were staying with him. After Sun Ce pacified Wu, Xu Shao and Liu Yaonan fled Yuzhang and died there at the age of forty-six.
Xu Shao's brother Xu Qian was also famous. People in Runan said Pingyu had two dragons.


