Chunk 0: 
original: 
萧景，字子昭，高祖从父弟也。
父崇之字茂敬，即左光禄大夫道赐之子。
道赐三子：长子尚之，字茂先；次太祖文皇帝；次崇之。
初，左光禄居于乡里，专行礼让，为众所推。仕历宋太尉江夏王参军，终于治书侍御史。齐末，追赠散骑常侍、左光禄大夫。
尚之敦厚有德器，为司徒建安王中兵参军，一府称为长者；琅邪王僧虔尤善之，每事多与议决。
迁步兵校尉，卒官。
天监初，追谥文宣侯。
尚之子灵钧，仕齐广德令。
高祖义师至，行会稽郡事，顷之卒。
高祖即位，追封东昌县侯，邑一千户。
子謇嗣。
崇之以干能显，为政尚严厉，官至冠军将军、东阳太守。
永明中，钱唐唐珝之反，别众破东阳，崇之遇害。
天监初，追谥忠简侯。
景八岁随父在郡，居丧以毁闻。
既长好学，才辩能断。
齐建武中，除晋安王国左常侍，迁永宁令，政为百城最。
永嘉太守范述曾居郡，号称廉平，雅服景为政，乃榜郡门曰： 诸县有疑滞者，可就永宁令决。
顷之，以疾去官。
永嘉人胡仲宣等千人诣阙，表请景为郡，不许。
还为骠骑行参军。
永元二年，以长沙宣武王懿勋，除步兵校尉。
是冬，宣武王遇害，景亦逃难。
高祖义师至，以景为宁朔将军、行南兗州军事。
时天下未定，江北伧楚各据坞壁。景示以威信，渠帅相率面缚请罪，旬日境内皆平。
中兴二年，迁督南兗州诸军事、辅国将军、监南兗州。
高祖践阼，封吴平县侯，食邑一千户，仍为使持节、都督南、北兗、青、冀四州诸军事、冠军将军、南兗州刺史。
诏景母毛氏为国太夫人，礼如王国太妃，假金章紫绶。
景居州，清恪有威裁，明解吏职，文案无壅，下不敢欺，吏人畏敬如神。
会年荒，计口赈恤，为穀粥于路以赋之，死者给棺具，人甚赖焉。
天监四年，王师北伐，景帅众出淮阳，进屠宿预。
丁母忧，诏起摄职。
五年，班师，除太子右卫率，迁辅国将军、卫尉卿。
七年，迁左骁骑将军，兼领军将军。
领军管天下兵要，监局官僚，旧多骄侈，景在职峻切，官曹肃然。
制局监皆近幸，颇不堪命，以是不得久留中。
寻出为使持节、督雍、梁、南、北秦、郢州之竟陵司州之随郡诸军事、信武将军、宁蛮校尉、雍州刺史。
八年三月，魏荆州刺史元志率众七万寇潺沟，驱迫群蛮，群蛮悉渡汉水来降。
translation: 
Xiao Jing, courtesy name Zizhao, was Gaozu's cousin.
His father, Xiao Chong, also known as Chong, was the son of Xiao Dao, a doctor from Zuo Guanglu.
Xiao Daomo had three sons: the eldest son Xiao Tangzhi, named Maoxian; the second son was Emperor Taizu Wen; and the third son was Xiao Chongzhi.
When Zuo Guanglu Daoyan lived in the countryside, he paid great attention to the practice of courtesy and was highly praised by everyone. He served as a Taiwei of the Song Dynasty and joined the army of King Jiangxia.
Xiao Shangzhi had a kind-hearted character and virtuous conduct. When he joined the army as a soldier of Situ Jianbaoyu, everyone in Fuxiang called him an elder. They valued him especially and often consulted with him before making decisions when encountering matters.
Later, Xiao Shangzhi was moved to the rank of infantry captain and died in his official post.
In the early years of Tianjian, he was posthumously given the title Wenxuanhou.
Xiao Shangzhi's son Xiao Lingjun was appointed magistrate of Guangde County in Qi.
When Gaozu's righteous master arrived, he was carrying out the affairs of Kuaiji County and died soon after.
After Emperor Gaozu ascended the throne, he was posthumously granted the title of Marquis of Dongchang County, with a settlement of 1,000 households.
His son Xiao Jian succeeded him.
Xiao Chongzhi was famous for his talent and ability. He advocated strictness in politics and became a champion general and Dongyang governor in his palace.
During the Yongming Dynasty, Qian, Tang and Tang Jui rebelled and led their troops to capture Dongyang. Xiao Chongzhi was killed.
In the early years of Tianjian, he was posthumously given the title of Marquis Zhongjian.
When Xiao Jing was eight years old, he lived with his father in Dongyang County. After his father's death, Xiao Jing became famous far and wide because he lost weight due to grief during the period of mourning.
When I grow up, I love to learn, so I can argue with others and be decisive in doing things.
During the Zhibian and Jianwu years, he was awarded the title of King Gui's left-hand minister and moved to Chengkong County Magistrate. His political performance was the best among the local palaces.
Fan Shu, the prefect of Yongjia County, once lived in the county and was known to be honest and fair. He had always admired Xiao Jing's political performance, so he posted a notice on the county gate saying: "Any difficult and backlogged problems in each county can be solved by the Yongning County Magistrate."
Soon, Xiao Jing resigned due to illness.
Hu Zhongxuan, a native of Yongjia, and more than a thousand people came to the palace and petitioned Xiao Jing to continue to serve as county governor, but the emperor did not agree.
Xiao Jing returned to the court and became a knight and joined the army.
In the second year of Yongyuan, Xiao Jing was awarded the title of Infantry Colonel for his contribution to Changsha Xuanwu King Xiao Yi.
In the winter of that year, King Xuanwu was killed and Xiao Jing also fled.
After Gaozu's uprising team arrived, he appointed Xiao Jing as General Ningshuo to carry out the military affairs of Southern Yanzhou.
At that time, the world was not yet peaceful, and the Chu people on the north bank of the Yangtze River each occupied earthen forts for defense. Xiao Jing showed his authority to them, and the leaders were bound one after another and came to plead guilty. Ten days later, everything in the territory calmed down.
In the second year of the Zhongxing Dynasty, Xiao Jingqian was appointed to supervise the military affairs of Southern Yanzhou, assist the country as a general, and supervise Southern Yanzhou.
After Emperor Gaozu ascended the throne, he granted Xiao Jing the title of Marquis of Wuping County, with a settlement of 1,000 households. He also served as envoy commander, governor of the military of the four states of South Yanzhou, North Yanzhou, Qingzhou, and Jizhou, champion general, and governor of South Yanzhou.
Emperor Shao ordered Xiao Jing's mother, Mao, to be the concubine of the state, and she was treated ceremonially like a concubine of the kingdom, with fake gold medals and purple ribbons.
When Xiao Jing lived in Zhoujie, he was honest, cautious and authoritative. He clearly understood the responsibilities of the officials and never had a backlog of documents. The staff below did not dare to deceive him. The officials respected and feared him very much, just like a god.
When there was a famine in the year of the millennium, Xiao Jing asked people to provide relief and pensions. He prepared rice and porridge and put them on the roadside for people passing by. Those who died were given coffins. The people are very dependent on him.
In the fourth year of Tianjian, during the Liang Dynasty's Northern Expedition, Xiao Jing led the army from Huaiyang to attack Suyu City.
He resigned due to the death of his mother, and the Emperor Xia Shao appointed him as an acting official.
Five years later, Banshi returned to the court. He was appointed as the prince's right guard, and moved to the post of general of the auxiliary state and Weiweiqing.
In the seventh year, he was moved to General Zuo Xiaoqi and concurrently served as the leading general.
The leader is responsible for the country's military secrets, and the bureaucrats in the Supervision Bureau were mostly arrogant and extravagant in the past. Lu Liang was very strict during his tenure, and the officials were very restrained.
The supervisors of the military attache system were all favored people, and they could not bear Xiao Jing, so Xiao Jing could not stay in the court for a long time.
Soon, he was appointed as envoy Chijie, governor of Yongzhou, Liangzhou, Southern Qinzhou, Northern Qinzhou, Jiantan Tongbao Og, Choubi's donkey Yingzhu military, General Xinwu, Ningman captain, and Yongzhou governor.
In March of the eighth year, Wu Jin, the governor of Jingzhou in the Wei State, led an army of 70,000 to invade and move away. They drove and forced the barbarians, and the barbarians crossed the desert river one after another to seek refuge with the Liang Dynasty.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
议者以蛮累为边患，可因此除之。
景曰： 穷来归我，诛之不祥。
且魏人来侵，每为矛盾，若悉诛蛮，则魏军无碍，非长策也。
乃开樊城受降。
因命司马硃思远、宁蛮长史曹义宗、中兵参军孟惠俊击志于潺沟，大破之，生擒志长史杜景。
斩首万余级，流尸盖汉水，景遣中兵参军崔缋率军士收而瘗焉。
景初到州，省除参迎羽仪器服，不得烦扰吏人。
修营城垒，申警边备，理辞讼，劝农桑。
郡县皆改节自励，州内清肃，缘汉水陆千余里，抄盗绝迹。
十一年，征右卫将军、领石头戍军事。
十二年，复为使持节、督南、北兗、北徐、青、冀五州诸军事、信威将军、南兗州刺史。
十三年，征为领军将军，直殿省，知十州损益事，月加禄五万。
景为人雅有风力，长于辞令。
其在朝廷，为众所瞻仰。
于高祖属虽为从弟，而礼寄甚隆，军国大事，皆与议决。
十五年，加侍中。
十七年，太尉、扬州刺史临川王宏坐法免。
诏曰： 扬州应须缉理，宜得其人。
侍中、领军将军吴平侯景才任此举，可以安右将军监扬州，并置佐史，侍中如故，即宅为府。
景越亲居扬州，辞让甚恳恻，至于涕泣，高祖不许。
在州尤称明断，符教严整。
有田舍老姥尝诉得符，还至县，县吏未即发，姥语曰： 萧监州符，火爄汝手，何敢留之！
其为人所畏敬如此。
十八年，累表陈解，高祖未之许。
明年，出为使持节、散骑常侍、都督郢、司、霍三州诸军事、安西将军、郢州刺史。
将发，高祖幸建兴苑饯别，为之流涕。
既还宫，诏给鼓吹一部。
在州复有能名。
齐安、竟陵郡接魏界，多盗贼，景移书告示，魏即焚坞戍保境，不复侵略。
translation: 
Some people argued that the barbarians had repeatedly become a scourge on the border and they could take this opportunity to get rid of them.
Xiao Jing said: They are desperate and come to join us. It is not good to kill them.
Moreover, when the Wei people came to invade our country, the barbarians often had conflicts with them. If all the barbarians were killed, then there would be no obstacle for the Wei army, and sending them away would not be a long-term solution.
So he opened the gates of Fancheng and accepted the surrendered barbarians.
Xiao Jing therefore ordered Sima Zhu Siyuan, Ningman chief minister Cao Yizong, and Zhongbing soldier Meng Huijun to attack Yuanzhi in Jinggou. They won a complete victory and captured Yuanzhi's chief minister Du Jing alive.
More than 10,000 of the enemy were killed, and the Han River was covered with floating corpses. Xiao Jing sent his soldiers to join the army, Cui Ji led the soldiers, fished out the corpses and buried them.
When Xiao Jing first arrived in Yongzhou, he was exempted from the formalities and uniforms required to welcome him, so as not to disturb the officials and people of the state.
After he took office, he built barracks and cities and fortresses, issued repeated warnings to strengthen border defenses, tried cases and lawsuits, and encouraged the people to farm and grow mulberry trees.
For a time, all counties and counties in the state changed their policies and encouraged themselves. The territory of Yongzhou became quiet and tidy. The land and water along the desert river totaled more than a thousand miles, and theft no longer happened.
In the eleventh year, Xiao Jing was called up to serve as General Youwei and concurrently as stone garrison military officer.
In the twelfth year, he was again appointed as envoy Chijie, supervising the military affairs of the five states of southern Yanzhou, northern Yanzhou, northern Xuzhou, Qingzhou, and Jizhou, general Xinwei, and governor of southern Yanzhou.
In the thirteenth year, Xiao Jing was summoned as the leading general, on duty in the palace province, in charge of the profit and loss affairs of ten states, and received an increase of 50,000 yuan in salary every month.
Xiao Jing has always been very personable and good at rhetoric.
When he was in the court, he was watched and admired by everyone.
Although he and Gaozu were cousins ​​in terms of kinship, Gaozu treated him with great courtesy. When encountering military affairs and national affairs, he would discuss decisions with him.
In the fifteenth year, Xiao Jingjia was appointed as the servant.
In the seventeenth year, Xiao Hong, the Taiwei and the governor of Yangzhou, the king of Linchuan, was dismissed for breaking the law.
The emperor's Shaoshu said: Yangzhou must be managed and suitable people must be selected.
The talents of Wu Huhou and Xiao Jing, the leading general of the army, are qualified for this position. General An You can be used to supervise Yangzhou and set up the assistant history. If the position of minister is still maintained, his residence will be used as the official residence.
Xiao Jing's distant relative lived in Yangzhou. He declined the appointment so sincerely that he burst into tears, but Gaozu refused to allow his resignation.
When Xiao Jing took office in Yongzhou, he was particularly famous for his clear-cut decisions, and his instructions were very strict.
There was an old woman in the countryside. After she complained, she received instructions from Xiao Jing. When she returned to the county, the county officials did not send them out immediately. The old woman said: Xiao Jianzhou's talisman will burn your hands like fire. How dare you keep it!
Xiao Jing was so awed by people.
In the eighteenth year, Xiao Jing repeatedly petitioned the emperor to be relieved of his duties, but Gaozu did not agree.
In the second year, Xiao Jing served as envoy Chijie, regular attendant of Sanqi, military commander of Yingzhou, Sizhou and Huozhou, general of Anxi, and governor of Yingzhou.
Before setting off, Emperor Gaozu came to Xingjian Garden to bid farewell to Xiao Jing, for which he burst into tears.
Gaozu returned to the palace and ordered Xiao Jing to preach a piece of music.
Xiao Jing was known for his ability during his tenure.
The counties of Chabao, Deng and Tongduo bordered the Wei State, and there were many thieves. After Xiao Jing conveyed the notice to the Wei State, the Wei State immediately burned the earthen forts defended by the thieves to protect the border and prevent any further invasion of the two counties.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
普通四年，卒于州，时年四十七。
诏赠侍中、中抚军、开府仪同三司。
谥曰忠。
子劢嗣。
昌字子建，景第二弟也。
齐豫章末，为晋安王左常侍。
天监初，除中书侍郎，出为豫章内史。
五年，加宁朔将军。
六年，迁持节、督广、交、越、桂四州诸军事、辅国将军、平越中郎将、广州刺史。
七年，进号征远将军。
九年，分湘州置衡州，以昌为持节、督广州之绥建湘州之始安诸军事、信武将军、衡州刺史，坐免。
十三年，起为散骑侍郎，寻以本官兼宗正卿。
其年，出为安右长史。
累迁太子中庶子、通直散骑常侍，又兼宗正卿。
昌为人亦明悟，然性好酒，酒后多过。
在州郡，每醉辄径出入人家，或独诣草野。
其于刑戮，颇无期度。
醉时所杀，醒或求焉，亦无悔也。
属为有司所劾，入留京师，忽忽不乐，遂纵酒虚悸。
在石头东斋，引刀自刺，左右救之，不殊。
十七年，卒，时年三十九。
子伯言。
昂字子明，景第三弟也。
天监初，累迁司徒右长史，出为轻车将军、监南兗州。
初，兄景再为南兗，德惠在人，及昂来代，时人方之冯氏。
征为琅邪、彭城二郡太守，军号如先。
复以轻车将军出为广州刺史。
普通二年，为散骑常侍、信威将军。
四年，转散骑侍郎、中领军、太子中庶子，出为吴兴太守。
大通二年，征为仁威将军、卫尉卿，寻为侍中，兼领军将军。
中大通元年，为领军将军。
二年，封湘阴县侯，邑一千户。
出为江州刺史。
大同元年，卒，时年五十三。
谥曰恭。
昱字子真，景第四弟也。
天监初，除秘书郎，累迁太子舍人，洗马，中书舍人，中书侍郎。
每求自试，高祖以为淮南、永嘉、襄阳郡，并不就。
志愿边州，高祖以其轻脱无威望，抑而不许。
迁给事黄门侍郎。
上表曰： 夏初陈启，未垂采照，追怀惭惧，实战胸心。
translation: 
Four years later, Xiao Liang died in Jian maggot at the age of forty-seven.
The emperor decreed that he be awarded the posthumous title of Shizhong, Zhongfujun, and Kaifu Yitong.
Mi Hao Zhong.
He was succeeded by his son Xiao Qin.
Xiao Chang, whose courtesy name is Zijian, is Xiao Jing's second younger brother.
In the last years of Yuzhang of Qi Dynasty, he served as Zuo Changshi of King Jin'an.
In the early years of Liang Tianjian's reign, he served as the Minister of Zhongshu and the internal history of Yuzhang County.
In the fifth year, Xiao Chang was appointed General Ning Shuo.
In the sixth year, he was moved to the post of Chijie, in charge of the military affairs of Guangzhou, Jiaozhou, Yuesu and Guangzhou, general of the auxiliary state, general of Zhonglang in Pingyue, and governor of Luye.
In the seventh year, he was promoted to General Zhengyuan.
In the ninth year, Hengzhou was separated from Xiangzhou, and Xiao Chang was appointed as the governor, supervising Xujian in Guangzhou and Shi'an military affairs in Xiangzhou, General Xinwu, and governor of Hengzhou. He was dismissed from office for crimes.
In the thirteenth year, Xiao Chang was appointed as the Minister of Sanqi, and soon he took the original official position and concurrently served as Zongzhengqing.
In the same year, Xiao Chang became the chief historian of An You.
He was repeatedly moved to serve as the prince's concubine, Tongzhi Sanqi's regular attendant, and also served as Zong Zhengqing.
Xiao Chang is also very understanding and understanding, but he likes to drink by nature, and after drinking, he often makes mistakes.
When he was in office in the state department, he would often go in and out of other people's homes whenever he was drunk, and sometimes go to the wilderness alone.
He also had no limits in using torture and killing.
He killed someone when he was drunk, and then went to find that person again when he sobered up. Just like that, he didn't regret it.
Finally impeached by relevant officials, Luchang was summoned to stay in the capital. He was very unhappy, so he drank all day long, became very weak, and suffered from heart disease.
In Gentijianzhai, Luken stabbed himself with a knife, but his entourage quickly rescued him, but he did not die.
In the seventeenth year, Xiao Chang died at the age of thirty-nine.
His son's name is Xiao Boyan.
Xiao Ang, whose courtesy name is Ziming, is Xiao Jing's third younger brother.
In the early years of Tianjian, he was transferred to Situ Youchangshi many times, served as general of light vehicles, and supervised southern Yanzhou.
At the beginning, when his brother Lu Liang was appointed as the governor of Yinchaye for the second time, his merits and favors were still in people's hearts. When Xiao Ang came to replace him, people compared him to Feng.
Xiao Ang was recruited as the prefect of Langye and Pengcheng counties, and the military trumpets remained as before.
He also served as the governor of Guangzhou with the official position of General Qingche.
In the second year of ordinary life, he was appointed as a regular servant of Sanqi and general Xinwei.
In the fourth year, he was transferred to the rank of minister of Sanqi, the leader of the army, the prince's concubine, and the prefect of Wuxing County.
In the second year of Datong, he was summoned to serve as General Renwei and Weiweiqing. Soon he was appointed as a minister and concurrently as the leading general.
In the first year of Zhongdatong, he was appointed as the leading general.
In the second year, he was granted the title of Marquis of Xiangyin County and was granted a residence of one thousand households.
He served as the governor of Jiangzhou.
In the first year of Datong, Xiao Ang passed away at the age of fifty-three.
Mi shouted Gong.
Xiao Yu, also known as Zizhen, is Xiao Jing's fourth younger brother.
In the early years of Tianjian, he was awarded the title of Secretary Lang, and was moved to the position of Prince Sheren, Xima, Zhongshu Sheren, and Zhongshu Shilang many times.
He often asked for self-examination, and Emperor Gaozu appointed him as the governor of Jinzhi County, Yongjia County, and Xiangyang County, but he refused to take office.
He volunteered to go to the border states and counties. Emperor Gaozu thought that he was frivolous, unstable and lacked prestige, so he suppressed him and refused to allow him to go.
Later he was appointed as the Minister of Huangmen.
Xiao Yu wrote to the emperor and said: The statement I submitted at the beginning of summer was not approved. Looking back on the past, shame and fear, really makes me tremble in my heart.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
臣闻暑雨祁寒，小人犹怨；荣枯宠辱，谁能忘怀！
臣藉以往因，得预枝戚之重；缘报既杂，时逢坎禀之运。
昔在齐季，义师之始，臣乃幼弱，粗有识虑，东西阻绝，归赴无由，虽未能负戈擐甲，实衔泪愤懑。
潜伏东境，备履艰危，首尾三年，亟移数处，虽复饥寒切身，亦不以冻馁为苦。
每涉惊疑，惶怖失魄，既乖致命之节，空有项领之忧，希望开泰，冀蒙共乐；岂期二十余年，功名无纪，毕此身骸，方填沟壑，丹诚素愿，溘至长罢，俯自哀怜，能不伤叹！
夫自媒自衒，诚哉可鄙；自誉自伐，实在可羞。
然量己揆分，自知者审，陈力就列，宁敢空言？是以常愿一试，屡成干请。
夫上应玄象，实不易叨；锦不轻裁，诚难其制。
过去业鄣，所以致乖算测。
圣监既谓臣愚短，不可试用，岂容久居显禁，徒秽黄枢。
忝窃稍积，恐招物议，请解今职，乞屏退私门。
伏愿天照，特垂允许。
臣虽叨荣两宫，报效无地，方违省闼，伏深恋悚。
高祖手诏答曰： 昱表如此。
古者用人，必前明试，皆须绩用既立，乃可自退之高。
昔汉光武兄子章、兴二人，并有名宗室，就欲习吏事，不过章为平阴令，兴为缑氏宰，政事有能，方迁郡守，非直政绩见称，即是光武犹子。
昱之才地，岂得比类焉！
translation: 
I heard that it rains heavily in the summer and is cold in the winter, and the villains still complain. Who can forget whether they are proud or frustrated in politics, whether they are favored or humiliated?
With the help of past connections, I was able to join the ranks of royal relatives and gain attention; the opportunities for repaying my gratitude were already mixed, and I was facing a fate of poverty and frustration.
In the past, at the end of the Qi Dynasty, when the righteous armies first emerged, I was still young and just a little sensible. Because the traffic between the east and the west was blocked, I had no way to join the righteous armies. Although I could not hold a spear and wore a bell armor, I actually had tears in my eyes and was full of resentment.
I lurked in the eastern border and experienced hardships and dangers. It lasted three years and moved to several places. Even though I was hungry and cold, I did not suffer from cold and exhaustion.
Whenever I encounter doubts, I am so frightened that I lose my soul. I have violated my fatal integrity and feared being tortured in vain. My body and head are separated. I look forward to the day when we can be prosperous and peaceful, and we can enjoy happiness together. Who knows that after waiting for more than 20 years, there is no fame to record, and my whole body will also fill the ravine. My sincere heart and pure wishes are suddenly over forever. I bow my head and pity alone, can I not sigh sadly!
It is indeed despicable to introduce oneself and show off oneself; it is really shameful to praise oneself and praise oneself.
However, if you have a clear understanding of your own situation and can use your talents to take up an official position, you will not dare to talk empty words, so you often hope to give it a try and ask others for help many times.
To say that it can respond to celestial phenomena, I dare not be so greedy, but if the brocade is not cut, it is really difficult to make clothes.
Because all the bad consequences I did in my previous life have become obstacles in this life, so I am now violating my calculations.
Since the Holy One thinks that I am stupid and defective and cannot be tried, how can I be tolerated to live in the forbidden area of ​​the royal family for a long time and soil the position of Huangmen official in vain.
I am ashamed of my official position. As time goes by, I am afraid that I will be criticized by people. Please relieve me from my position today and beg me to return home.
I prostrated myself and asked the Emperor for special permission.
Although I received the favor and honor from the two palaces, I was unable to repay my service and went against the wishes of the palace. I feel deeply nostalgic and afraid.
Emperor Gaozu wrote Shao Shu in his own hand and replied: This is what Xiao Yu said above.
In ancient times, when employing people, they must first be interviewed. They must have established merits and be very effective, so that they can show their high style of humility.
At that time, Liu Zhang and Liu Xing, the sons of Emperor Moguang Wu's brother, were both well-known in the clan. However, if they wanted to become officials, Liu Zhang became the magistrate of Pingyin County and Liu Xing became the prime minister of the Gou family. After they became capable in political affairs, they were moved to the post of county governor. Not only were they praised for their political achievements, they were also nephews of Emperor Guangwu.
Xiao Yu, how can your talents and insights be compared with theirs!


Chunk 4: 
original: 
往岁处以淮南郡，既不肯行；续用为招远将军、镇北长史、襄阳太守，又以边外致辞；改除招远将军、永嘉太守，复云内地非愿；复问晋安、临川，随意所择，亦复不行。
解巾临郡，事不为薄，数有致辞，意欲何在？
且昱诸兄递居连率，相继推毂，未尝缺岁。
其同产兄景，今正居籓镇。
朕岂厚于景而薄于昱，正是朝序物议，次第若斯，于其一门，差自无愧。
无论今日不得如此；昱兄弟昔在布衣，以处成长，于何取立，岂得任情反道，背天违地。
孰谓朝廷无有宪章，特是未欲致之于理。
既表解职，可听如启。
坐免官。
因此杜门绝朝觐，国家庆吊不复通。
普通五年，坐于宅内铸钱，为有司所奏，下廷尉，得免死，徙临海郡。
行至上虞，有敕追还，且令受菩萨戒。
昱既至，恂恂尽礼，改意蹈道，持戒又精洁，高祖甚嘉之，以为招远将军、晋陵太守。
下车励名迹，除烦苛，明法宪，严于奸吏，优养百姓，旬日之间，郡中大化。
俄而暴疾卒，百姓行坐号哭，市里为之喧沸，设祭奠于郡庭者四百余人。
田舍有女人夏氏，年百余岁，扶曾孙出郡，悲泣不自胜。
其惠化所感如此。
百姓相率为立庙建碑，以纪其德。
又诣京师求赠谥。
诏赠湘州刺史。
谥曰恭。
translation: 
In the past few years, you were asked to serve in Huainan County, but you refused to go; then you were asked to serve as General Zhaoyuan, Chief Superintendent of Zhenbei, and Governor of Xiangyang County, but you turned it down on the pretext that it was a remote area; later, you were appointed General Zhaoyuan and Governor of Yongjia County, but you said that going to the mainland was not your wish; I asked you again about the two places of Jin'an and Linchuan. It was your choice, but you refused to go.
There is nothing trivial about taking off the headscarf and taking up an official position. However, you have made excuses several times, so where are your wishes?
Besides, several of your brothers, Xiao Yu, have successively served as county guards, commanders, etc., and they have recommended each other, and they have not been lacking for a year.
Your brother Xiao Jing is now a official living in the feudal town.
Do I treat Xiao Jinghou well and you Xiao Yu poorly? This is what everyone in the court is talking about. Such an order is the same for you, so you are not ashamed.
Needless to say, this cannot be the case today; brothers Xiao Yu were ordinary people back then, and because they were in their growth period, how could they indulge themselves in violating the right path and going against heaven and earth?
Who says the imperial court doesn't have a charter? It's just that it doesn't want to put you in front of the court.
Since you have submitted a request for dismissal, let's do what you requested.
Xiao Yu was dismissed from his official position as a result.
From then on, he paid homage to guests and never went to the court to see the emperor again. He was no longer notified to attend any national celebrations or funerals.
In ordinary five years, Xiao Yu broke the law because he minted coins in his own home. The relevant officials reported the copy to the imperial officer. He was spared death and moved to Linhai County.
As soon as he reached Shangyu, he was chased by the emperor's order, asking him to go back and receive the Bodhisattva's warning.
After Xiao Yu arrived in the capital, he followed the requirements of etiquette very respectfully and carefully, changed his will, followed the rules, and fasted very carefully and cleanly. Emperor Gaozu admired him very much and appointed him as General Zhaoyuan and Prefect of Jinling County.
After Xiao Yu took office, he encouraged himself with his fame and achievements, eliminated too many excessive taxes and miscellaneous taxes, affirmed the legal charter, strictly controlled the cunning officials, and implemented a policy of good care for the people. As a result, within ten days, great changes took place in Jinling County.
Soon, Xiao Yu fell seriously ill and passed away. The people in the county, whether they were walking or sitting, cried loudly after hearing the news. The streets and alleys were abuzz with noise, and more than 400 people gathered in the courtyard of the county to pay homage.
There was a woman named Xia in the farmhouse by the field, who was over a hundred years old. When she heard the news of Xiao Yu's death, she came to the county government with her great-grandson in her arms and cried sadly, unable to control herself.
It can be seen that the influence of Xiao Yu's favorable policies is so great.
The people built temples and erected steles for Xiao Yu one after another to commemorate his merits.
They went to the capital to ask for a favor for Xiao Yu.
When the emperor came to Shao, he posthumously appointed Xiao Yu as the governor of Xiangzhou.
Mi Hao Gong.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
史臣曰：高祖光有天下，庆命傍流，枝戚属连，咸被任遇。
萧景之才辩识断，益政佐时，盖梁宗室令望者矣。
translation: 
Shi Chen said: "Zhidan owns the world, and rewards and appointments are generally given. Those relatives and related people are all appointed and treated with courtesy."
Lu Liang's talent, insight and judgment can be beneficial to the government and assist in current affairs. He is probably a person with good grace and dignity in the You clan.


