Chunk 0: 
original: 
谯玄李业刘茂温序彭脩索卢放周嘉范式李善王忳张武陆续戴封李充缪肜陈重雷义范冉戴就赵苞向栩谅辅刘翊王烈孔子曰： 与其不得中庸，必也狂狷乎！ 又云： 狂者进取，狷者有所不为也。
此盖失于周全之道，而取诸偏至之端者也。
然则有所不为，亦将有所必为者矣；既云进取，亦将有所不取者矣。
如此，性尚分流，为否异适矣。
中世偏行一介之夫，能成名立方者，盖亦众也。
或志刚金石，而克扞于强御。或意严冬霜，而甘心于小谅。
亦有结朋协好，幽明共心；蹈义陵险，死生等节。
虽事非通圆，良其风轨，有足怀者。
而情迹殊杂，难为条品；片辞特趣，不足区别。措之则事或有遗，载之则贯序无统。
以其名体虽殊，而操行俱绝，故总为《独行篇》焉。庶备诸阙文，纪志漏脱云尔。
谯玄字君黄，巴郡阆中人也。
少好学，能说《易》、《春秋》。
仕于州郡。
成帝永始二年，有日食之灾，乃诏举敦朴逊让、有行义者各一人。
translation: 
He also said: A mad person is aggressive, but a greedy person is unwilling to do bad things.
This is probably a partial approach that cannot be perfect.
However, if there is something not to do, there must be something that must be done; since we are talking about making progress, there will also be something not to do.
In this way, people's temperaments are still different, and what they do and what they don't do are just appropriate for each.
In the era of peace, it can be said that a lot of people who deviate from one's own way can become famous and upright, and their words and deeds match.
Some ambitions are as strong as gold and stone, capable of crushing violence; some have consciousness as severe as winter frost, with integrity in their hearts.
There are also those who make friends, live and die together, go to justice and take risks, and live and die together.
Although this kind of thing is not perfect, its style is truly worth remembering.
It's just that the plots of this kind of thing are very complicated and difficult to separate into logical categories. In a word, some special purposes are not worth studying deeply. Without them, some things will be missed; if they are written down, the article will have no center.
Although its name and style are different, its conduct and conduct are all excellent, so it is always classified into the "Ding Xing Pian". It can be regarded as a missing article in the history, and the description is just omitted.
◆The biography of Qiao Xuan, whose courtesy name is Jun Huang, was born in Langzhong, Ba County.
When he was young, he was easy to learn and could speak "Yi" and "Spring and Autumn".
He was appointed as an official in the state and county.
In the second year of Emperor Yongshi's reign, there was a solar eclipse, and the imperial court issued an edict to appoint one person each to be honest, humble, and righteous.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
州举玄，诣公车，对策高第，拜议郎。
帝始作期门，数为微行。
立赵飞燕为皇后，后专宠怀忌，皇子多横夭。
玄上书谏曰： 臣闻王者承天，继宗统极，保业延祚，莫急胤嗣。故《易》有干蛊之义，《诗》咏众多之福。
今陛下圣嗣未立，天下属望，而不惟社稷之计，专念微行之事，爱幸用于所惑，曲意留于非正。
窃闻后宫皇子，产而不育。臣闻之怛然，痛心伤剥，窃怀忧国，不忘须臾。
夫警卫不修，则患生非常。
忽有醉酒狂夫，分争道路。既无尊严之仪，岂识上下之别！
此为胡狄起于毂下，而贼乱发于左右也。
愿陛下念天下之至重，爱金玉之身，均九女之施，存无穷之福，天下幸甚。
时，数有灾异，玄辄陈其变。
translation: 
The state held the title of Qiao Xuan, went to the bus, answered policy questions, got a high rank, and was awarded the title of Consultant.
Emperor Cheng began to hold regular meetings and went out casually many times.
Zhao Feiyan was made queen, but Zhao Feiyan was jealous of her and many of her princes were killed.
Qiao Xuan wrote: I heard that the emperor upholds the destiny to inherit the clan, protect the great cause of the ancestors, and continue the emperor's throne. The most important thing is to have successors. Therefore, "Yi" has the meaning of "Qian Gu", and "Poetry" praises many blessings.
It means being able to inherit the past, being capable in dealing with things, and correcting the mistakes of parents. It means having many children and grandchildren is a blessing to the family and the country. Now the emperor's successor has not been established, and everyone in the world is looking forward to it. However, the emperor does not care about the country's big plans, and only engages in trivial matters. He is seduced by women and devotes his attention to non-serious things.
When I heard that the harem prince had given birth to many children and could not survive, I felt extremely sad and worried, and I will not forget it for a moment.
If the guards are unprepared, disasters often occur and unexpected events occur.
Suddenly there are drunken and crazy husbands, fighting on the road, no dignity of honor, who knows the difference between up and down.
This is why tigers start under your vehicles and thieves appear around you.
I hope that the emperor will think of the great things in the world, cherish his golden body, and benefit from the blessings of the nine daughters, so as to preserve endless blessings. The world will be fine.
At this time, disasters occurred frequently, and Qiao Xuan stated the reasons for them.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
既不省纳，故久稽郎官。
后迁太常丞，以弟服去职。
平帝元始元年，日食，又诏公卿举敦朴直言。
大鸿胪左咸举玄诣公车对策，复拜议郎，迁中散大夫。
四年，选明达政事、能班化风俗者八人。
时并举玄，为绣衣使者，持节，与太仆王恽等分行天下，观览风俗，所至专行诛赏。
事未及终，而王莽居摄，玄于是纵使者车，变易姓名，间窜归家，因以隐遁。
后公孙述僭号于蜀，连聘不诣。
述乃遣使者备礼征之；若玄不肯起，便赐以毒药。
太守乃自赍玺书至玄庐，曰： 君高节已著，朝廷垂意，诚不宜复辞，自招凶祸。
玄仰天叹曰： 唐尧大圣，许由耻仕；周武至德，伯夷守饿。
translation: 
If the emperor does not adopt it, he will remain in the Langguan position for a long time and will not be promoted.
Later, he was promoted to Taichang Cheng and resigned due to the death of his younger brother.
In the first year of the Yuan Dynasty of Emperor Ping, there was a solar eclipse, and he ordered the ministers to promote honest and outspoken people.
Da Honglu and Zuo Xian raised Qiao Xuan to the bus to answer the emperor's policy questions. He was also awarded the title of Yi Lang and was promoted to Zhongsan Dafu.
For four years, eight people who are wise in politics and able to change customs are selected.
At that time, everyone held the title of Qiao Xuan and was appointed as an envoy of embroidered clothes. They uphold integrity and traveled all over the country with the imperial servant Wang Yun and others to observe the customs. Wherever they went, they specialized in killing bad people and rewarding good people.
Before the matter was completed, Wang Mang took charge of the emperor's affairs, so Qiao Xuan threw away the embroidered messenger's car, changed his name, ran back home privately, and hid himself.
Later, Gongsun Shu claimed that he had a false name in Shu and hired him many times, but he refused to go.
Gongsun Shu then sent an envoy to summon him with gifts; if Qiao Xuan refused to go, he would be given poison.
The prefect himself sent the seal to Qiao Xuan's home, saying: "You are already famous for your high integrity, and the court intends to use you. You should not resign, or you will bring disaster."
Qiao Xuan looked up to the sky and sighed: "For a great sage like Tang Yao, Xu You was ashamed to be his minister. For someone as virtuous as King Wu of Zhou, Boyi would rather starve to death than eat his corn."


Chunk 3: 
original: 
彼独何人，我亦何人。
保志全高，死亦奚恨！
遂受毒药。
玄子瑛泣血叩头于太守曰： 方今国家，东有严敌，兵师四出。国用军资，或不常充足。愿奉家钱千万，以赎父死。
太守为请，述听许之。
玄遂隐藏田野，终述之世。
时，兵戈累年，莫能修尚学业，玄独训诸子勤习经书。
建武十一年卒。
明年，天下平定，玄弟庆以状诣阙自陈。光武美之，策诏本郡祠以中牢，敕所在还玄家钱。
时，亦有犍为费贻，不肯仕述，乃漆身为厉，阳狂以避之，退藏山薮十余年。
述破后，仕至合浦太守。
瑛善说《易》，以授显宗，为北宫卫士令。
李业字巨游，广汉梓潼人也。
少有志操，介特。
习《鲁诗》，师博士许晃。
元始中，举明经，除为郎。
translation: 
Who is Gongsun Shu and who am I?
Keep your ambitions high, live a good life, and die without regrets!
For receiving poison.
Qiao Xuan's son Qiao Wangying kowtowed in tears and said to the eunuch: "There is a big enemy in the east now. The army is attacking. The country is spending a lot of money, there are a lot of military supplies, and the country's treasury is insufficient. I am willing to spend tens of millions of my family's money to atone for my father's death."
The prefect made a request for him, and Gongsun Shu agreed.
Qiao Xuan therefore hid in the fields until Gongsun Shu's death.
At this time, wars continued for many years, and no one could talk about his studies. Qiao Xuan alone taught his disciples to study the classics diligently.
He died in the eleventh year of Jianwu.
The next year, when the world was at peace, Qiao Xuan's younger brother went to the capital to report Qiao Xuan's deeds to the emperor. Guangwu praised Qiao Xuan's deeds, ordered the county to sacrifice him in a prison, and ordered the locality to return Qiao Xuan's family money.
At that time, there was a Jian named Fei Yi, who refused to accept Gongsun Shu's fake post, so he painted his body with paint to act as a ghost, pretended to be crazy and escaped, and lived in the Tibetan mountains for more than ten years.
After Gongsun Shu was eliminated, he became the prefect of Hepu.
King Qiao Ying was good at explaining the Book of Changes and used it to teach Xianzong, and he was appointed as the guard order of Beigong.
◆The biography of Li Ye, whose courtesy name is Juyou, was born in Zitong, Guanghan.
When he was young, he was ambitious and upright, admiring himself and not following the popular customs.
He studied "Lu Shi" with Dr. Xu Huang as his teacher.
In the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, he cited the Ming Sutra and was awarded the title of Lang.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
会王莽居摄，业以病去官，杜门不应州郡之命。
太守刘咸强召之，业乃载病诣门。咸怒，出教曰： 贤者不避害，譬犹彀弩射市，薄命者先死。
闻业名称，故欲与之为治，而反托疾乎？
令诣狱养病，欲杀之。
客有说咸曰： 赵杀鸣犊，孔子临河而逝。
未闻求贤而胁以牢狱者也。
咸乃出之，因举方正。
王莽以业为酒士，病不之官，遂隐藏山谷，绝匿名迹，终莽之世。
及公孙述僭号，素闻业贤，征之，欲以为博士，业固疾不起。
数年，述羞不致之，乃使大鸿胪尹融持毒酒、奉诏命以劫业：若起，则受公侯之位；不起，赐之以药。
融譬旨曰： 方今天下分崩，孰知是非？
而以区区之身，试于不测之渊乎！
朝廷贪慕名德，旷官缺位，于今七年，四时珍御，不以忘君。
translation: 
When Wang Mang came to power on behalf of the emperor, Li Ye resigned due to illness and refused to be appointed by the state and county.
The prefect Liu Xian forced him to come out. Li Ye had no choice but to go to Liu Xian when he was ill. Liu Xian got angry and came out to teach him a lesson: A wise man does not avoid disaster. This is like a sword and crossbow shooting into a busy city. The less fortunate will die first.
After hearing your reputation, I wanted to ask you to work with me to manage the county government. You don't know how to praise me, and you are just claiming that you are ill. Is this right?
He was ordered to go to prison to recuperate and wanted to kill him.
A guest said to Liu Xian: Zhao Jianzi killed Dou Mingdu, and Confucius refused to cross the river.
I have never heard of people who seek virtuous people being threatened with jail time!
Liu Xiancai released Li Ye and promoted him as Founder.
Wang Mang appointed Li Ye as a bartender, but he refused to leave due to illness, so he hid in the valley and lost his name until Wang Mang's death.
Gongsun Shu set up a false name. He often heard people say that Li Ye was talented, so he recruited him and wanted to use him as a doctor. Li Ye insisted that he could not afford to be ill.
A few years later, Gongsun Shu thought he had lost face because he did not summon Li Ye, so he sent Dahong Yinrong to threaten Li Ye with poison and an edict: if he obeyed the order, he would give the Duke the throne; if he did not, he would give poison.
Yin Rong persuaded Li Yedao: Today the world is falling apart, no one knows who is right and who is wrong.
Why try the unpredictable abyss with your small body?
The imperial court admires your reputation and morality, and has kept your official position and position vacant for seven years now. It has cherished you all the time and will not forget you.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
宜上奉知己，下为子孙，身名俱全，不亦优乎！
今数年不起，猜疑寇心，凶祸立加，非计之得者也。
业乃叹曰： 危国不入，乱国不居。
亲于其身为不善者，义所不从。
君子见危授命，何乃诱以高位重饵哉？
融见业辞志不屈，复曰： 宜呼室家计之。
业曰： 丈夫断之于心久矣，何妻、子之为？
遂饮毒而死。
述闻业死，大惊，又耻有杀贤之名，乃遣使吊祠，赙赠百匹。
业子翚，逃避不受。
蜀平，光武下诏表其闾，《益部纪》载其高节，图画形象。
初，平帝时，蜀郡王皓为美阳令，王嘉为郎。
王莽篡位，并弃官西归。
及公孙述称帝，遣使征皓、嘉，恐不至，遂先系其妻、子。
translation: 
Isn't it good to serve your close friends at the top and consider your children and grandchildren at the bottom?
If you don't go there for a few years now, if you are suspected of being hostile, disaster may befall you immediately. This is not an option.
Li Ye had no choice but to sigh and said: "You can't enter a country that is in danger, and you can't live in a country that is in chaos."
Doing evil deeds personally is not allowed by righteousness.
When a gentleman sees danger and gives orders, how can he be lured with heavy bait from a high position?
Seeing that Li Yezhi couldn't give in, Yin Rong said again: "You should call your wife, children and children to discuss it."
Li Ye said: It took me a long time to make up my mind. Why did I ask my wife?
He drank poison and died.
Gongsun Shu was shocked when he heard that Li Ye was dead. He felt it was shameful to carry the name of killing a wise man, so he sent envoys to pay homage to Li Ye and perform hundreds of funeral rites.
Li Ye's son Li Fu resigned and refused to accept it.
After Gongsun Shu's puppet Shu was pacified, Guangwu issued an edict to show Li Ye's inner circle. "Yi Bu Ji" records Li Ye's high integrity and paints his image.
At first, during the reign of Emperor Ping, Wang Hao of Shu County was appointed as the Order of Meiyang, and Wang Jia was appointed as Lang.
Wang Mang usurped the throne of the Han Dynasty, and they all abandoned their official positions and returned to the west.
When Gongsun Shu proclaimed himself emperor, he sent envoys to recruit Wang Hao and Wang Jia. He was worried that they would not go, so he captured their wives first.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
使者谓嘉曰： 速装，妻、子可全。
对曰： 犬马犹识主，况于人乎！
王皓先自刎，以首付使者。
述怒，遂诛皓家属。
王嘉闻而叹曰： 后之哉！
乃对使者伏剑而死。
是时，犍为任永及业同郡冯信，并好爱博古。
公孙述连征命，待以高位，皆托青盲，以避世难。
永妻淫于前，匿情无言；见子入井，忍而不救。
信侍婢亦对信奸通。
及闻述诛，皆盥洗更视曰： 世适平，目即清。
淫者自杀。
光武闻而征之，并会病卒。
刘茂字子卫，太原晋阳人也。
少孤，独侍母居。
家贫，以筋力致养，孝行著于乡里。
及长，能习《礼经》，教授常数百人。
哀帝时，察孝廉，再迁五原属国候，遭母忧去官。
服竟后为沮阳令。
会王莽篡位，茂弃官，避世弘农山中教授。
translation: 
The messenger said to Wang Jia: Let's go on the road quickly, my wife can be saved.
Wang Jia replied: Dogs and horses know their owners, let alone humans?
Wang Hao committed suicide first and gave his head to the messenger.
Gongsun Shu was furious and killed Wang Hao's family members.
When Wang Jia heard about it, he sighed and said, "I'm a step too late!"
He bent his sword against the messenger and died.
At this time, Ren Yong from Jianwei and Feng Xin from the same county as Li Ye were both eager to learn and knowledgeable about the present and the past.
Gongsun Shu was recruited many times and promised high officials and generous salaries, but he used glaucoma to escape the world's difficulties.
Ren Yong's wife had committed adultery before and kept it secret. She watched her son fall into a well and did nothing to save her.
Feng Xin's maid also committed adultery with Feng Xin.
When they heard that Gongsun Shu had been executed, Ren Yong and Feng Xin both washed their faces and looked at each other and said: "The world is at peace and our eyes are clear."
Those who commit adultery and adultery commit suicide.
After Guangwu heard about it, he recruited them, but they all happened to die of illness at home.
◆The biography of Liu Mao, whose courtesy name is Ziwei, was born in Jinyang, Taiyuan.
Lost his father when he was young.
A person lives with his mother. His family was poor and he relied on his labor income to support his mother. His filial piety was praised by the villagers.
When he grows up, he can study the Book of Rites and teach hundreds of students.
During the reign of Emperor Ai, he promoted filial piety and integrity and was promoted to five former princes of the country. However, his mother died and he was dismissed.
When the mourning period expires, he will be appointed Juyang Order.
When Wang Mang usurped the throne of the Han Dynasty, Liu Mao abandoned his official position and hid in Hongnong Mountain to teach his students.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
建武二年归，为郡门下掾。
时，赤眉二十余万众攻郡县，杀长吏及府掾史。
茂负太守孙福逾墙藏空穴中，得免。
其暮，俱奔盂县。
昼则逃隐，夜求粮食。
积百余日，贼去，乃得归府。
明年，诏书求天下义士。
福言茂曰： 臣前为赤眉所攻，吏民坏死，奔走趣山。臣为贼所围，命如丝发，赖茂负臣逾城，出保盂县。
茂与弟触冒兵刃，缘山负食，臣及妻子得度死命，节义尤高。
宜蒙表擢，以厉义士。
诏书即征茂，拜议郎，迁宗正丞。
后拜侍中，卒官。
延平中，鲜卑数百余骑寇渔阳，太守张显率吏士追出塞，遥望虏营烟火，急趣之。
兵马掾严授虑有伏兵，苦谏止，不听。
translation: 
In the second year of Jianwu, he came back from Hongnong Mountain and served as a subordinate of the county.
At this time, more than 200,000 people from Chimei came to attack the county and killed the chief officials and government officials.
Liu Mao carried the prefect Sun Fu on his back, climbed the wall and hid in a hollow, and narrowly escaped death.
That night, the two people fled to Yu County.
They hide during the day and come out to find food at night.
In this way, it took more than a hundred days before the red-browed thief left and was able to return to the county.
In the second year, the imperial edict was issued to visit the righteous people in the world.
Sun Fu said to Liu Mao: I was attacked by Red Eyebrows in front of me. The officials and the people were in chaos and fled up the mountain. I was surrounded by thieves and my life was tied to my hair. Fortunately, you carried me on my back to climb the city and get out of Baoyu County.
You and your brother risked their lives to find food in the mountains, and my wife and I were able to save our lives. This is a very high moral integrity.
We should praise and promote righteous people.
The imperial edict immediately conscripted Liu Mao as Yilang and promoted him to Zong Zhengcheng.
Later, he was awarded the title of Shizhong and died in office.
In Yanping, hundreds of people from Xianbei invaded Yuyang. The eunuch Zhang Xian led his officials to chase them out of the fortress. Looking at the fireworks of the prison camp in the distance, they followed closely.
Yan Shuo, who was carrying soldiers and horses, was worried about an ambush and tried hard to persuade him not to pursue him, but Zhang Xian, the prefect, refused to listen to him.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
显蹙令进，授不获已，前战，伏兵发，授身被十创，殁于阵。
显拔刃追散兵，不能制，虏射中显，主簿卫福、功曹徐咸遽赴之，显遂堕马，福以身拥蔽，虏并杀之。
朝廷愍授等节，诏书褒叹，厚加赏赐，各除子一人为郎中。
永初二年，剧贼毕豪等入平原界，县令刘雄将吏士乘船追之。
至厌次河，与贼合战。雄败，执雄，以矛刺之。
时小吏所辅前叩头求哀，愿以身代雄。
豪等纵雄而刺辅，贯心洞背即死。
东郡太守捕得豪等，具以状上。
诏书追伤之，赐钱二十万，除父奉为郎中。
温序字次房，太原祁人也。
仕州从事。
建武二年，骑都尉弓里戍将兵平定北州，到太原，历访英俊大人，问以策谋。
戍见序奇之，上疏荐焉。于是征为侍御史，迁武陵都尉，病免官。
六年，拜谒者，迁护羌校尉。
序行部至襄武，为隗嚣别将苟宇所拘劫。
translation: 
Zhang Xian still forced his way forward, but Yan Shui had no choice but to advance forward to fight. Sure enough, the Xianbei soldiers who were ambushing him suddenly attacked and Yan Shui was wounded ten times and died on the battlefield.
Zhang Xian drew his sword and chased the scattered soldiers, but was unable to stop them. The enemy captured Zhang Xian and shot him. Chief Wei Fu and meritorious officer Xu Xian quickly went to rescue Zhang Xian. Zhang Xian fell under his horse. Wei Fu covered Zhang Xian with his body, and the enemy captured them all.
The imperial court took pity on Yan Shu and other righteous martyrs, issued an edict to praise them, and gave them great rewards. Each of his sons was appointed a doctor.
In the second year of Yongchu, the big thief Bi Hao and others entered the territory of Pingyuan, and the county magistrate Liu Xiong led his officials to chase them by boat.
When he arrived at the Yanci River, he fought with the thieves. Liu Xiong was defeated and captured, and the thieves stabbed him with a spear.
At this time, the assistant of the minor official came forward to kowtow and beg for mercy, and was willing to die in Liu Xiong's place.
Bi Hao and others let Liu Xiong go to stab Suo Fu. The spear penetrated his heart and back, killing him immediately.
The prefect of Dongjun captured Bi Hao and others and reported the situation to the court.
The edict commemorated the mourning, granted two hundred thousand yuan in money, and appointed the doctor who was appointed by his father as his assistant.
◆Biography of Wen Xu, courtesy name Cifang, a native of Qi County, Taiyuan.
He became an official in the state.
In the second year of Jianwu, the cavalry captain Gongli Shu led his troops to pacify Beizhou and arrived in Taiyuan. He visited handsome people and asked them for their plans.
Gongli garrison met Wen Xu and thought he was a genius. He recommended Wen Xu to the emperor, so the imperial court recruited him to serve as a censor. He was promoted to captain of Wuling, but he resigned due to illness.
In the sixth year, Wen Xu was granted the title of Visitor and promoted to the Colonel of the Qiang Protector.
Wen Xu went to Xiangwu to inspect his subordinates and inspect the criminal administration, but he was arrested by Gou Yu, the general of Nang Guixiao.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
宇谓序曰： 子若与我并威同力，天下可图也。
序曰： 受国重任，分当效死，义不贪生、苟背恩德。
宇等复晓譬之。
序素有气力，大怒，叱宇等曰： 虏何敢迫胁汉将！
因以节楇杀数人。
贼众争欲杀之。宇止之曰： 此义士死节，可赐以剑。
序受剑，衔须于口，顾左右曰： 既为贼所迫杀，无令须污土。
遂伏剑而死。
序主簿韩遵、从事王忠持尸归敛。
光武闻而怜之，命忠送丧到洛阳，赐城傍为冢地，赙谷千斛、缣五百匹，除三子为郎中。
长子寿，服竟为邹平侯相。
梦序告之曰： 久客思乡里。
寿即弃官，上书乞骸骨归葬。
帝许之，乃反旧茔焉。
彭脩字子阳，会稽毘陵人也。
年十五时，父为郡吏，得休，与脩俱归，道为盗所劫。脩困迫，乃拔佩刀前持盗帅曰： 父辱子死，卿不顾死邪？
translation: 
Gou Yu said to Wen Xu: If you cooperate with me, the world can win.
Wen Xu said: "If you accept the heavy responsibility of the country, you can only put your life on the line. For the sake of righteousness, you must not be afraid of death and betray the kindness of the court."
Gou Yu and others persuaded him again and again.
Wen Xu, who was already strong, was furious and scolded Gou Yu and others: "How dare the ugly prisoners threaten the Han generals!"
He killed a few people with his sword.
There were many thieves and they were vying to kill Wen Xu. Gou Yu stopped them and said, "This is the day for the death of a righteous man. You can give him a sword."
Wen Xu took the sword, put his beard in his mouth, looked around at the people around him and said, "I have been forced to kill by thieves, so don't let your beard be stained by dirt again."
He fell on his sword and died.
Wen Xu was in charge of registering Han Zun, and Wang Zhong was responsible for collecting the corpse and burying it.
Guangwu felt sorry for him when he heard about it, and ordered Wang Zhong to send the funeral to Luoyang. He gave Wen Xu a cemetery next to the city, sent him a thousand dendrobiums and five hundred pieces of silk, and appointed his three sons as doctors.
The eldest son, Wenshou, was appointed Houxiang of Zouping after his mourning period expired.
In his dream, Wen Xu told him: I have been a guest away for a long time and miss my hometown.
Wen Shou abandoned his official position and wrote a letter asking to go home and bury his father.
The emperor approved his request and sent his father's coffin back to the old cemetery in his hometown.
◆Peng Xiu's biography, Peng Xiu's courtesy name is Ziyang, and he was from Piling, Kuaiji.
When he was fifteen years old, his father was appointed as a county official. During the holidays, Peng went home with his father and was robbed and kidnapped on the road. When Peng was in distress, he drew his sword and grabbed the robber's head and said: "My father was humiliated and my son died. Aren't you afraid of death?"


Chunk 10: 
original: 
盗相谓曰： 此童子义士也，不宜逼之。
遂辞谢而去。
乡党称其名。
后仕郡为功曹。
时，西部都尉宰祐行太守事，以微过收吴县狱吏，将杀之。主簿钟离意争谏甚切，祐怒，使收缚意，欲案之，掾史莫敢谏。
脩排阁直入，拜于庭，曰： 明府发雷霆于主薄，请闻其过。
祐曰： 受教三日，初不奉行，废命不忠，岂非过邪？
脩因拜曰： 昔任座面折文侯，朱云攀毁栏槛，自非贤君，焉得忠臣？
今庆明府为贤君，主簿为忠臣。
祐遂原意罚，贳狱吏罪。
后州辟从事。
时，贼张子林等数百人作乱，郡言州，请脩守吴令。
脩与太守俱出讨贼，贼望见车马，竞交射之，飞矢雨集。
脩障扞太守，而为流矢所中死，太守得全。
贼素闻其恩信，即杀弩中脩者，余悉降散。
言曰： 自为彭君故降，不为太守服也。
索卢放字君阳，东郡人也。
以《尚书》教授千余人。
translation: 
The thieves shouted to each other: This kid is a righteous man, don't force him.
Since I apologized to him, Xiangsui left.
He became famous in his hometown.
Later he became an official in the county and became a meritorious official.
At this time, Zai Chao, the captain of the western region, was acting as the governor. He arrested the jailer of Wu County for a minor offense and planned to kill him. Zhong Liyi, the chief registrar, tried his best to remonstrate with him. Zai Chao became angry and ordered Zhong Liyi to be arrested and wanted to interrogate him. Even the governor did not dare to remonstrate with him.
Peng Xiu pushed the pavilion straight into the court, knelt in the court, and said: The prefect was furious at the chief clerk. May I ask, what crime did he commit?
Zai Chao said: He was ordered to do so for three days, but he did not carry it out at all. To abandon his life would be disloyal. Isn't this a sin?
Peng Xiuyin paid his respects and said: "I once opposed Marquis Wen face to face, and Zhu Yun climbed over the palace threshold. If he were not a virtuous king, how could he have loyal ministers?"
Now I congratulate the prefect for being a wise king and the chief administrator for being a loyal minister.
Zai Chao forgave Zhong Liyi's punishment and pardoned the jailer's sins.
Later, he was engaged in state recruitment.
At this time, several hundred people including the thief Zhang Zilin made a rebellion, and the county reported to the state, asking Peng Xiu to be appointed magistrate of Wu County.
Peng Xiu and the prefect went to beg the thieves. When the thieves saw the prefect and Peng Xiu's chariots and horses, they fought to shoot, and the arrows flew like rain.
Peng Xiu used his body to cover the eunuch and was shot to death by a stray arrow, but the eunuch was saved.
The thieves heard about Peng Xiu's favor on weekdays and killed the man who shot Peng Xiu with a crossbow. Some of the other thieves surrendered and some fled.
He said: We surrendered for Lord Peng, not for the sake of the prefect.
◆Solu Fangzhuan, Solu Fang's courtesy name is Junyang, and he is from Dongjun.
He taught more than a thousand students using "Shang Shu".


Chunk 11: 
original: 
初署郡门下掾。
更始时，使者督行郡国，太守有事，当就斩刑，放前言曰： 今天下所以苦毒王氏，归心皇汉者，实以圣政宽仁故也。
而传车所过，未闻恩泽。
太守受诛，诚不敢言，但恐天下惶惧，各生疑变。
夫使功者不如使过，愿以身代太守之命。
遂前就斩。
使者义而赦之，由是显名。
建武六年，征为洛阳令，政有能名。
以病乞身。徙谏议大夫，数纳忠言，后以疾去。
建武末，复征不起，光武使人舆之，见于南宫云台，赐谷二千斛，遣归，除子为太子中庶子。
卒于家。
周嘉字惠文，汝南安城人也。
高祖父燕，宣帝时为郡决曹掾。
太守欲枉杀人，燕谏不听，遂杀囚而黜燕。
translation: 
He first served as a county magistrate.
During the Gengshi period, envoys inspected the prefectures and states. If the prefect committed a crime, he should be beheaded. Suo Lufang stepped forward and said: The reason why the world now resents Wang Mang and returns to the imperial Han Dynasty is the reason why the Holy Government is merciful.
But when the messenger came to the county, he did not show any kindness.
When the prefect was executed, he did not dare to say anything, but he was afraid that the whole world would be frightened and suspicious.
Oh, it is better to use someone who has merit than someone who has made mistakes. I am willing to take the life of the prefect with my body.
So he stepped forward and killed him.
The messenger thought that he had sacrificed his life for justice, so he pardoned him. It became famous because of it.
In the sixth year of Jianwu's reign, he was appointed the Luoyang Order and was known for his shrewdness and ability.
He resigned due to illness and went home. He advised the officials and received many loyal suggestions. Later, he resigned due to illness.
In the last years of Jianwu, when he could no longer be recruited, Guangwu sent someone to carry him to the capital in a sedan chair. He was summoned at Yuntai, Nangong, and given two thousand dendrobiums of grain, he was sent home and his son was consecrated as the prince's concubine.
Die at home.
◆Zhou Jiachuan, courtesy name Huiwen, was from Ancheng, Runan.
My great-great-great-grandfather Zhou Yan was a county general Cao Cao during the reign of Emperor Xuan.
The eunuch wanted to kill someone unjustly, but Zhou Yan refused to listen to his advice, so he killed the prisoner and deposed Zhou Yan at the same time.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
囚家守阙称冤，诏遣复考。燕见太守曰： 愿谨定文书，皆著燕名，府君但言时病而已。
出谓掾史曰： 诸君被问，悉当以罪推燕。
如有一言及于府君，燕手剑相刃。
使者乃收燕系狱。
屡被掠楚，辞无屈桡。
当下蚕室，乃叹曰： 我平王之后，正公玄孙，岂可以刀锯之余下见先君？
遂不食而死。
燕有五子，皆至刺史、太守。
嘉仕郡为主簿。
王莽末，郡贼入汝阳城，嘉从太守何敞讨贼，敞为流矢所中，郡兵奔北，贼围绕数十重，白刃交集，嘉乃拥敞，以身扞之。
因呵贼曰： 卿曹皆人隶也。为贼既逆，岂有还害其君者邪？
嘉请以死赎君命。
因仰天号泣。
群贼于是两两相视，曰： 此义士也！ 给其车马，遣送之。
后太守寇恂举为孝廉，拜尚书侍郎。
光武引见，问以遭难之事。
嘉对曰： 太守被伤，命悬寇手。臣实弩怯，不能死难。
帝曰： 此长者也。
诏嘉尚公主，嘉称病笃，不肯当。
稍迁零陵太守，视事七年，卒。
零陵颂其遗爱，吏民为立祠焉。
嘉从弟暢，字伯持，性仁慈，为河南尹。
永初二年夏，旱，久祷无应，暢因收葬洛城傍客死骸骨，凡万余人。应时澎雨，岁乃丰稔。
位至光禄勋。
范式字巨卿，山阳金乡人也，一名汜。
少游太学，为诸生，与汝南张劭为友。
劭字元伯。
translation: 
The prisoner's family stood guard at the palace gate, crying out for injustice and ordering a reexamination. Zhou Yan met the prefect and said, "I hope you will write the documents carefully, with my name written on them. The prince only said that you were ill at that time."
When he came out of the prefect's office, he said to the governor: "When you are questioned, just blame me, Zhou Yan."
If you say something to Fu Jun, I, Zhou Yan, will use my swords in my hands.
The envoy then arrested Zhou Yan and imprisoned him.
He was tortured many times and refused to tell the truth.
According to the crime, he should be thrown into the Jamshi room, so he sighed and said: I am a descendant of King Ping and the great-great-grandson of Zhenggong. How can I go to see the late king without cutting off the sword?
He went on a hunger strike and died.
Zhou Yan had five sons, all of whom were governors and prefects.
Zhou Jia became an official and became the governor of the county.
In the last years of Wang Mang, a group of thieves entered Ruyang City. Zhou Jia followed the prefect He Chang to attack the thieves. He Chang was hit by a stray arrow. The county soldiers fled one after another. The thieves surrounded him for dozens of miles and fought with swords. Zhou Jia supported He Chang and defended He Chang with his own body.
Because he scolded the thieves and said: You are all slaves of others. Being thieves is already treason. Is there anyone who kills his own superiors?
I, Zhou Jiaqing, sacrificed my life to redeem the officer's life.
Because he looked up to the sky and cried.
The thieves looked at each other and said, "This is a righteous man!" He returned his carriage and horses and sent him away.
Later, the prefect Kou Xun promoted Zhou Jia to the title of Xiaolian and the minister of minister.
Guangwu summoned him and asked him about Zhou Jia's death.
Zhou Jia replied: The governor is injured and his life is in the hands of thieves. I am too stupid and coward to die.
The emperor said: This is the elder.
The imperial edict ordered Zhou Jia to marry the princess, but Zhou Jia said that he was seriously ill and did not dare to marry the princess.
He was promoted to the prefect of Lingling and served for seven years before passing away.
Lingling praised his legacy, and officials and people built a shrine in his honor.
Zhou Jia's uncle and brother Zhou Chang, named Bochi, was kind-hearted and served as Yin of Henan.
In the second year of Yongchu, there was a severe drought in the summer, and there was no rain after long prayers. Zhou Chang collected and buried the bones of more than 10,000 people who died in Luoyang, and a sweet rain fell at the right time, and this year he had a good harvest.
The position reaches Guang Luxun.
◆The biography of Shishi, whose courtesy name is Juqing, was born in Jinxiang, Shanyang, and his last name was Si.
When he was young, he entered the Imperial Academy and became a student, and became friends with Zhang Shao of Runan.
Zhang Shao was named Yuan Bo.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
二人并告归乡里。
式谓元伯曰： 后二年当还，将过拜尊亲，见孺子焉。
乃共克期日。
后期方至，元伯具以白母，请设馔以候之。
母曰： 二年之别，千里结言，尔何相信之审邪？
对曰： 巨卿信士，必不乖违。
母曰： 若然，当为尔酿酒。
至其日，巨卿果到，升堂拜饮，尽欢而别。
式仕为郡功曹。
后元伯寝疾笃，同郡郅君章、殷子徵晨夜省视之。
元伯临尽，叹曰： 恨不见吾死友！
子徵曰： 吾与君章尽心于子，是非死友，复欲谁求？
元伯曰： 若二子者，吾生友耳。山阳范巨卿，所谓死友也。
寻而卒。
式忽梦见元伯玄冕垂缨屣履而呼曰： 巨卿，吾以某日死，当以尔时葬，永归黄泉。
子未我忘，岂能相及？
式怳然觉寤，悲叹泣下，具告太守，请往奔丧。
太守虽心不信而重违其情，许之。
translation: 
The two took leave and returned home.
Shi Shi said to Uncle Yuan: "I will come back in two years' time and come to your house to pay homage to Lord Zunlingtang and see your son."
So the two agreed on a date together.
Later, when the day came, Zhang Yuanbo told his mother all the details of the incident, and asked his mother to prepare wine and dinner to wait for Fan Shi's arrival.
His mother said: After two years apart, why do you take the words spoken thousands of miles away so seriously?
Answer: Fan Juqing is a very faithful person and will definitely not break the contract.
Mother said: In this case, I will prepare wine and food for you.
On that day, Fan Juqing really arrived, went to the hall to worship, and parted happily.
Shi Fan was appointed as the meritorious official of the county.
Later, Zhang Yuanbo fell seriously ill, and fellow county residents Zhi Junzhang and Yin Zizheng visited him day and night.
When Uncle Yuan was dying, he sighed: I regret not seeing my dead friend!
Yin Zizheng said: "Jun Zhang and I are wholeheartedly recruiting you. We are not dead friends. Where can you find a dead friend?"
Yuan Bo said: You two are my living friends, but Fan Juqing of Shanyang is my dead friend.
Soon, he passed away.
Shi Fan suddenly dreamed of Uncle Yuan's black crown hanging with tassels on his clothes and he shouted: "Ju Qing, I have died on a certain day. I should be buried on time and return to the underworld forever."
You have not forgotten my words. Can you be there for the burial?
Paradigm suddenly woke up, lamented and cried, reported to the prefect, and asked to be allowed to go to the funeral.
Although the prefect didn't believe it in his heart, he believed that Shi Shi's feelings were valuable, so he agreed to attend the funeral.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
式便服朋友之服，投其葬日，驰往赴之。
式未及到，而丧已发引，既至圹，将窆，而柩不肯进。
其母抚之曰： 元伯，岂有望邪？
遂停柩移时，乃见有素车白马，号哭而来。
其母望之曰： 是必范巨卿也。
巨卿既至，叩丧言曰： 行矣元伯！
死生路异，永从此辞。
会葬者千人，咸为挥涕。
式因执绋而引柩，于是乃前。
式遂留止冢次，为修坟树，然后乃去。
后到京师，受业太学。
时诸生长沙陈平子亦同在学，与式未相见，而平子被病将亡，谓其妻曰： 吾闻山阳范巨卿，烈士也，可以托死。
吾殁后，但以尸埋巨卿户前。
乃裂素为书，以遗巨卿。
既终，妻从其言。
时式出行适还，省书见瘗，怆然感之，向坟揖哭，以为死友。
乃营护平子妻兒，身自送丧于临湘。
未至四五里，乃委素书于柩上，哭别而去。
其兄弟闻之，寻求不复见。
translation: 
Paradigm dressed in his friend's mourning clothes and rode horseback on the day of burial.
Before the paradigm arrived, Yuan Bo's mourning had already begun. He arrived at Xiengjing and was about to lower the coffin. At this time, the coffin could not be lifted and refused to enter.
His mother patted the coffin and said: Uncle Yuan, is there still hope?
He stopped the coffin for a while and saw plain carriages and white horses coming wailing.
His mother took a look and said, "This must be Fan Juqing!"
When Juqing arrived, he kowtowed to the coffin and said, "I've gone to Uncle Yuan!"
Life and death are different paths, farewell forever.
More than a thousand people who attended the funeral shed tears.
The paradigm then held on to the silk ribbon as a guide, and the coffin moved forward.
Paradigm stayed next to the tomb, repaired the tomb tree, and then went back.
Later he arrived in the capital and studied at Taixue.
At this time, Zhu Changsha and Chen Pingzi were also at Taixue and did not know Shi Shi. Chen Pingzi was ill and was about to die. He said to his wife: I heard that Fan Juqing of Shanyang was a righteous man and could be trusted to die.
After I die, it will be fine if I just bury my body in front of Juqing's house.
So he tore off a piece of vegetarian food and wrote a letter to Ju Qing.
After his death, his wife followed Hirako's will.
At this time, Fan Shi just returned from an trip. He read Chen Pingzi's letter and his tomb. He was so sad that he bowed to the tomb and cried non-stop, thinking that he was his dead friend.
So he took care of Pingzi's wife and children and personally sent the funeral back to Linxiang.
At a place four or five miles away from Linxiang, he put the plain calligraphy on the coffin, cried goodbye and left.
Pingzi's brother heard about it but couldn't find him.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
长沙上计掾史到京师，上书表式行状，三府并辟，不应。
举州茂才，四迁荆州刺史。
友人南阳孔嵩，家贫亲老，乃变名姓，佣为新野县阿里街卒。
式行部到新野，而县选嵩为导骑迎式。
式见而识之，呼嵩，把臂谓曰： 子非孔仲山邪？
对之叹息，语及平生。曰： 昔与子俱曳长裾，游息帝学。吾蒙国恩，致位牧伯，而子怀道隐身，处于卒伍，不亦惜乎！
嵩曰： 侯嬴长守于贱业，晨门肆志于抱关。
子欲居九夷，不患其陋。
贫者士之宜，岂为鄙哉！
式敕县代嵩，嵩以为先佣未竟，不肯去。
嵩在阿里，正身厉行，街中子弟，皆服其训化。
遂辟公府。
之京师，道宿下亭，盗共窃其马，寻问知其嵩也，乃相责让曰： 孔仲山善士，岂宜侵盗乎！
于是送马谢之。
嵩官至南海太守。
translation: 
Changsha sent a messenger to the capital to write a letter indicating Fan Shi's behavior. The three prefectures were all vying to recruit him, but they were not accepted.
The most talented person in Juzhou was promoted to the rank of governor of Jingzhou.
My friend Kong Song from Nanyang had a poor family and his parents were old, so he changed his name and was hired as a pawn on Ali Street in Xinye County.
Shishi inspected the new fields, and the county chose Kong Song as a guide to welcome Shishi.
Fan Shi knew him as Kong Song. He held Kong Song's arm and said, "Aren't you Kong Zhongshan?"
He sighed and talked about his life experiences, saying: "In the past, you and I both wore long robes and studied at the Imperial Academy. I was favored by the country and became the governor, but you actually concealed your identity and stayed in the army. What a pity!"
Kong Song said: Hou Ying has been a soldier of the Yi clan for a long time, guarding the city gate, and he is very happy.
Confucius wanted to live in Jiuyi, and he did not mind being humble.
Being poor is the duty of a scholar. Is this despicable?
Shifan ordered the county to replace Kong Song. Kong Song thought that he was hired first and the date of employment had not expired, so he refused to go.
When Kong Song was in Ali, he acted righteously and strictly, and all the children in the street obeyed his teachings.
So the government conscripted him.
On the way to the capital, they stayed in the pavilion. Thieves stole his horse. Soon after they learned that it was Kong Song's horse, they scolded each other: Kong Zhongshan is a good man, how can he invade it?
So the horse was returned to Kong Song.
Kong Song was appointed as the governor of Nanhai.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
式后迁庐江太守，有威名，卒于官。
李善字次孙，南阳淯阳人也，本同县李元苍头也。
建武中疫疾，元家相继死没，唯孤兒续始生数旬，而赀财千万，诸奴婢私共计议，欲谋杀续，分其财产。
善深伤李氏而力不能制，乃潜负续逃去，隐山阳瑕丘界中，亲自哺养，乳为生湩。推燥居湿，备尝艰勤。
续虽在孩抱，奉之不异长君，有事辄长跪请白，然后行之。
闾里感其行，皆相率修义。
续年十岁，善与归本县，修理旧业。
告奴婢于长吏，悉收杀之。
时钟离意为瑕丘令，上书荐善行状。
光武诏拜善及续并为太子舍人。
善显宗时辟公府，以能理剧，再迁日南太守。
从京师之官，道经淯阳，过李元冢。未至一里，乃脱朝服，持锄去草。
及拜墓，哭泣甚悲，身自炊爨，执鼎俎以修祭祀。
translation: 
Shi Fan was later promoted to the prefect of Lujiang and became famous. He died in office.
◆Li Shanchuan, the second grandson of Li Shan, was born in Yuyang, Nanyang. He was originally a servant of Li Yuan from the same county.
An epidemic was prevalent in Jianwu, and Li Yuan's family members died of illness one after another. Only an orphan, Li Xu, was born. In just a few dozen days, the family had tens of thousands of dollars in wealth. The slaves discussed privately and wanted to kill Li Xu too, so that everyone could divide the property.
Li Shan pitied Li Shi, but was unable to stop him, so he secretly carried Li Xu and ran away, hiding in the Shanyang Xiaqiu world, feeding him himself, feeding him food and water, and his milk also produced milk, so as to avoid the heat and cold, and prepare for hardships.
Although Li Xu was in his arms, Li Shan treated him like an elder brother. If something happened, he would kneel down and ask for instructions before reporting.
The villagers were moved by his deeds and followed him in doing good deeds.
When Li Xu was ten years old, Li Shan took him back to the county to reorganize his old business.
He complained to the chief minister about the slaves, and he rounded them up and killed them all.
At this time, Zhong Liyi Ren Xia Qiu ordered him to write a letter recommending Li Shan's deeds.
Guangwu issued an edict to grant Li Shan and Li Xu both sacrifices for the prince.
Li Shan was recruited by the government during the reign of Emperor Xianzong. Because he could manage difficult places, he was promoted to the governor of Rinan.
On his way to his post in the capital, he passed by Xuyuyang and passed Li Yuan's tomb. A mile away, he took off his court clothes and started weeding with a hoe.
After paying homage to the tomb, he wept and grieved endlessly. He cooked rice with his own hands and held a tripod to offer sacrifices to Li Yuan.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
垂泣曰： 君夫人，善在此。
尽哀，数日乃去。
到官，以爱惠为政，怀来异俗。
迁九江太守，未至，道病卒。
续至河间相。
王忳字少林，广汉新都人也。
忳尝诣京师，于空舍中见一书生疾困，愍而视之。
书生谓忳曰： 我当到洛阳，而被病，命在须臾。腰下有金十斤，愿以相赠，死后乞藏骸骨。
未及问姓名而绝。
忳即鬻金一斤，营其殡葬，余金悉置棺下，人无知者。
后归数年，县署忳大度亭长。
初到之日，有马驰入亭中而止。其日，大风飘一绣被，复堕忳前，即言之于县，县以归忳。
忳后乘马到雒县，马遂奔走，牵忳入它舍。
主人见之喜曰： 今禽盗矣。
问忳所由得马，忳具说其状，并及绣被。
主人怅然良久，乃曰： 被随旋风，与马俱亡，卿何阴德而致此二物？
忳自念有葬书生之事，因说之，并道书生形貌及埋金处。
translation: 
She cried and said: Madam Jun, the good is here.
Sorry, I left after a few days.
When you reach the official position, you should govern with benevolence and influence other people.
He was promoted to the governor of Jiujiang, but died of illness on the road before he arrived.
Li Xuguan arrived at Hejian.
◆The biography of Wang Yi, whose courtesy name is Shaolin, was born in Xindu, Guanghan.
Wang Yi once went to the capital and saw a scholar lying ill in an empty house. He took pity on him and looked at him.
The scholar said to Wang Yi: "I am going to Luoyang. I am ill and bedridden. My life will be in danger. I have ten pounds of gold under my waist. I am willing to give it to you. When I die, please bury my body."
Before I could ask the scholar his name, the scholar died.
Wang Yi immediately sold a pound of gold and started a burial business for him. The remaining gold was all placed under the coffin, and no one knew about it.
Later, Wang Ai returned. A few years later, the county appointed Wang Ai as the chief of the Dadu Pavilion.
On the day he took office, a horse ran into the pavilion and refused to go. On that day, an embroidered quilt floated in the strong wind and fell in front of Wang Yi. Wang Yi reported to the county government, and the county government returned the horse and the embroidered quilt to Wang Yi.
Later, Wang Yi rode to Luoxian County. The horse galloped and led Wang Yi into a house.
The owner looked at it and said happily: "The horse thief was caught today!"
Ask Wang Yi how he got this horse. Wang Yi explained in detail the situation of the horse and the quilt embroidery.
The master was sad for a long time, and then he said: "The embroidered quilt and the horse were lost in the whirlwind. What kind of charisma do you have to get these two things?"
Wang Yi himself wanted to bury the scholar, so he told him, and also told the scholar's appearance and the place where the gold was buried.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
主人大惊，号曰： 是我子也。
姓金名彦。
前往京师，不知所在，何意卿乃葬之。
大恩久不报，天以此章卿德耳。
忳悉以被、马还之，彦父不取，又厚遗忳。忳辞让而去。
时，彦父为州从事，因告新都令，假忳休，自与俱迎彦丧，余金俱存。
忳由是显名。
仕郡功曹，州治中从事。
举茂才，除郡令。
到官，至麓亭。
亭长曰： 亭有鬼，数杀过客，不可宿也。
忳曰： 仁胜凶邪，德除不祥，何鬼之避！
即入亭止宿。
夜中闻有女子称冤之声。
忳咒曰： 有何枉状，可前求理乎？
女子曰： 无衣，不敢进。
忳便投衣与之。
女子乃前诉曰： 妾夫为涪令，之官过宿此亭，亭长无状，贼杀妾家十余口，埋在楼下，悉取财货。
忳问亭长姓名。
女子曰： 即今门下游徼者也。
translation: 
The master exclaimed: "That's my son."
The surname is Jin Mingyan.
When I went to the capital before, I didn't know where he was, and I never thought that you had buried him.
A great kindness is not repaid for a long time. God uses it to commend your virtue.
Wang Yi returned the quilt and horse to their owner. Jin Yan's father refused to accept it and gave Wang Yi a lot of things. Wang Yi gave in and left.
At this time, Jin Yan's father Renzhou was engaged, so he told the new capital order about the matter. Taking advantage of Wang Ai's vacation, he and Wang Ai went to greet Jin Yan's funeral, and all the remaining gold was there.
Wang Yiyou became famous.
Wang Yi became an official in the county and was engaged in state governance.
Promote outstanding talents and grant them the title of magistrate of Meichan County.
When he arrived, he arrived at Erting.
The director of the pavilion said: There is a ghost in the pavilion, which has killed passers-by many times. You cannot stay here.
Wang Yi said: Benevolence and righteousness defeat evil and evil, virtue eliminates ominousness, there is nothing to avoid!
Just stay in the pavilion.
I heard a woman shouting at night.
Wang Yi prayed and said: If you have any injustice, you can come and seek justice.
The woman said: "I don't dare to enter without clothes."
Wang Yi then threw a piece of clothing to her.
The woman then came to complain and said: "My husband is the magistrate of Fu County. When he became an official, he passed by this pavilion and stayed here. The director of the pavilion was a bad guy. He killed more than ten members of my family, buried them downstairs, and robbed all my family's belongings."
Wang Yi asked the pavilion chief who his last name was.
The woman said: This is the current Youyou under your sect.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
忳曰： 汝何故数杀过客？
对曰： 妾不得白日自诉，每夜陈冤，客辄眠不见应，不胜感恚，故杀之。
忳曰： 当为汝理此冤，勿复杀良善也。
因解衣于地，忽然不见，明旦召游徼诘问，具服罪，即收系，及同谋十余人悉伏辜。
遣吏送其丧归乡里，于是亭遂清安。
张武者，吴郡由拳人也。
父业，郡门下掾，送太守妻、子还乡里，至河内亭，盗夜劫之，业与贼战死，遂亡失尸骸。
武时年幼，不及识父。
后之太学受业，每节，常持父遗剑，至亡处祭醊，泣而还。
太守第五伦嘉其行，举孝廉。
遭母丧过毁，伤父魂灵不返，因哀恸绝命。
陆续字智初，会稽吴人也。
世为族姓。
祖父闳，字子春，建武中为尚书令。
美姿貌，喜着越布单衣，光武见而好之，自是常敕会稽郡献越布。
续幼孤，仕郡户曹史。
translation: 
Wang Yi said: Why did you kill passers-by many times?
The woman replied: I cannot complain to myself during the day and state my grievances at night. The passer-by often sleeps and does not respond. She is very angry, so she kills the passer-by to vent her hatred.
Wang Yi said: I will resolve this unjust case for you and never kill kind people again.
The woman took off her clothes, threw them on the ground, and suddenly disappeared. The next day Wang Yi called Youyou for interrogation and confessed all the crimes. He was immediately arrested and a dozen of his accomplices were executed.
They sent officials to take their mourning back to their hometowns, and Erting was at peace from then on.
◆Zhang Wu Chuan, Zhang Wu, was from Youquan County, Wu County.
My father, Zhang Ye, was a servant of the county. He sent the eunuch's wife back to his hometown and went to Hanoi Pavilion. She was robbed and robbed at night. Zhang Ye died fighting with the thieves, and his body was not found.
Zhang Wu was still young at the time and could not remember his father's face.
Later, Zhang Wu entered the Imperial College to study. On festival days, he often took his father's sword and went to the place where his father died in battle to pay homage and come back crying.
The Fifth Lun of the prefect commended Zhang Wu for his filial piety and commended him for his filial piety and integrity.
When his mother died, he grieved excessively. His father's soul did not return and he died of grief.
◆Lu Yu was passed down, with the courtesy name Zhi Chu, from Wuxian County, Kuaiji.
It has been the common surname in the county for generations.
His grandfather, Lu Hong, whose courtesy name was Zichun, was a minister in Jianwu.
He was a handsome man who liked to wear Yue cloth. Guangwu also liked this kind of Yue cloth when he saw it. From then on, he often ordered Kuaiji County to offer Yue cloth.
His father died one after another when he was young, and he became an official in the county.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
时岁荒民饥，太守尹兴使续于都亭赋民饘粥。
续悉简阅其民，讯以名氏。
事毕，兴问所食几何？
续因口说六百余人，皆分别姓字，无有差谬。
兴异之。
刺史行部，见续，辟为别驾从事。
以病去，还为郡门下掾。
是时，楚王英谋反，阴疏天下善士。及楚事觉，显宗得其录，有尹兴名，乃征兴诣廷尉狱。
续与主簿梁宏、功曹史驷勋及掾史五百余人诣洛阳诏狱就考，诸吏不堪痛楚，死者大半。唯续、宏、勋掠考五毒，肌肉消烂，终无异辞。
续母远至京师，觇候消息，狱事特急，无缘与续相闻，母但作馈食，付门卒以进之，续虽见考苦毒，而辞色慷慨，未尝易容，唯对食悲泣，不能自胜。使者怪而问其故。续曰： 母来，不得相见，故泣耳。
使者大怒，以为门卒通传意气，召将案之。
续曰： 因食饷羹，识母所自调和，故知来耳。非人告也。
使者问： 何以知母所作乎？
续曰： 母尝截肉，未尝不方，断葱以寸为度，是以知之。
使者问诸谒舍，续母果来，于是阴嘉之，上书说续行状。帝即赦兴等事，还乡里，禁锢终身。
translation: 
At this time, the people were hungry, so the prefect Yin Xing sent gruel to the people in Duting one after another.
All the hungry people were called together one after another and their names were asked one by one.
When the matter was over, Yin Xing asked how many people had eaten the gruel?
One after another, they immediately replied that there were more than 600 people, and they also named each one, without any mistakes.
Yin Xing admired his talent very much.
The governor inspected his subordinates, inspected the criminal administration, summoned them one after another, and recruited them to work as other officers.
He resigned due to illness and returned to the county to serve as a servant.
At this time, Chu Wangying rebelled and secretly searched for talents from all over the world. Chu Wangying's rebellion was discovered, and Xianzong obtained the case record, which contained Yin Xing's name, so he conscripted Yin Xing to Tingwei Prison.
One after another, Liang Hong, the chief secretary, Shi Sixun, the meritorious officer, and more than 500 people from the secretariat went to Luoyang Prison for interrogation. The officials could not bear the pain, and most of them died. Only Lu, Liang Hong, and Siuxun tortured the five poisons, and their muscles festered, but they never said anything.
The mother had no choice but to cook some meals and give them to the servants to be delivered one after another. Although Lu Wei was beaten all over his body, he spoke generously, his appearance did not change, and he just cried over the food. His interrogator felt strange and asked him why. They said one after another: My mother is here and I am not allowed to see her, so I am crying.
His interrogators were furious, thinking that the servants had spread the news and wanted to summon him for interrogation.
They continued: Because when I ate the soup that was delivered, I knew that it was my mother who had mixed it herself, so I knew that it was my mother who came and not someone else who sued me.
The interrogator asked: How do you know it was your mother who did it?
He continued: "My mother often cuts meat, and there is nothing wrong with it. One inch is the standard for cutting green onions. I know this based on this."
The interrogator asked about Lu Lu, and Lu Lu's mother came as expected, so he privately felt that Lu Lu was good, and wrote a letter about Lu Lu's deeds. The emperor pardoned Yin Xing and others, returned them to their hometown, and banned them from serving as officials for life.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
续以老病卒。长子稠，广陵太守，有理名。
中子逢，乐安太守。
少子褒，力行好学，不慕荣名，连征不就。
褒子康，已见前传。
戴封字平仲，济北刚人也。
年十五，诣太学，师事鄮令东海申君。
申君卒，送丧到东海，道当经其家。
父母以封当还，豫为娶妻。
封暂过拜亲，不宿而去。还京师卒业。
时同学石敬平温病卒，封养视殡敛，以所赍粮市小棺，送丧到家。
家更敛，见敬平行时书物皆在棺中，乃大异之。
封后遇贼，财物悉被略夺，唯余缣七匹，贼不知处，封乃追以与之，曰： 知诸君乏，故送相遗。
贼惊曰： 此贤人也。
尽还其器物。
后举孝廉，光禄主事，遭伯父丧去官。
translation: 
Die of old age one after another. The eldest son, Lu Chou, was the governor of Guangling and was talented in governance.
The second son, Lu Feng, was the prefect of Le'an.
The youngest son, Lu Bao, was diligent in his studies and did not seek fame, so he failed despite continuous recruitment.
Favorite Lu Kang, the prequel has been seen.
◆Biography of Dai Feng, named Pingzhong, from Gang County, Jibei Province.
At the age of fifteen, he went to Taixue and became his teacher, Lord Shen of the East China Sea.
When Lord Shen passed away, Dai Feng sent Lord Shen to mourn in the East China Sea, passing through Dai Feng's own house.
His father and mother thought Dai Feng would come home and married him in advance.
Dai Feng only stayed home for a while, and then left without staying overnight, returning to the capital to finish his studies.
At that time, his classmate Shi Jingping died of plague. Dai Feng treated him and carried out his funeral. He used the food he brought to buy a small coffin and sent his funeral home.
When his family was buried, they were very surprised to see the books and other things that Jingping had brought with him when he left in the coffin.
Dai Feng later met a thief, and all his property was robbed, leaving only seven pieces of string. The thief didn't know where the string was. Dai Feng then caught up with the thief and gave the string to the thief, saying: "I know you are poor, so I give it to you."
The thief exclaimed: This is a wise man!
All the items that were grabbed first were returned to him.
Later, he was appointed as Xiaolian and appointed as Guanglu. However, his uncle died and he resigned from the official position.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
诏书求贤良方正直言之士、有至行能消灾伏异者，公卿郡守各举一人。
郡及大司农俱举封。
公车征，陛见，对策第一，擢拜议郎。迁西华令。
时汝、颍有蝗灾，独不入西华界。
时督邮行县，蝗忽大至。督邮其日即去，蝗亦顿除，一境奇之。
其年大旱，封祷请无获，乃积薪坐其上以自焚。
火起而大雨暴至，于是远近叹服。
迁中山相。
时诸县囚四百余人，辞状已定，当行刑。
封哀之，皆遣归家，与克期日，皆无违者。
诏书策美焉。
永元十二年，征拜太常，卒官。
李充字大逊，陈留人也。
家贫，兄弟六人同食递衣。
妻窃谓充曰： 今贫居如此，难以久安。妾有私财，愿思分异。
translation: 
The edict seeks virtuous, upright and upright people who dare to speak outright and have good virtues who can ward off disasters and subjugate monsters. The ministers and governors will each select one person.
Both the county and the chief minister raised Dai Feng.
He was called up in the public car and introduced by the emperor. He ranked first in answering questions and was promoted to Yilang and appointed as Xihua Ling.
At this time, the locusts in Ru and Ying areas were plagued by locusts, and they could not enter the territory of Xihua.
At that time, the governor was on inspection in the county, and locusts suddenly flew in in large numbers. When the governor left that day, the locusts suddenly disappeared. This scene was regarded as a strange thing.
There was a severe drought that year, and Dai Feng's prayers were ineffective, so he accumulated a pile of salary, sat on it, and set fire to himself.
The fire started and the rain came, and people near and far were amazed.
Ascend to Zhongshan phase.
At this time, there were more than 400 prisoners in each county. The charges had been written and they were about to be executed.
Dai Feng took pity on these prisoners and sent them home to meet their relatives. He set a return date, and no one defaulted on the deadline.
The edict praised him.
In the twelfth year of Yongyuan, Tai Chang died in office.
◆The biography of Li Chong, Li Chong's courtesy name is Daxun, and his name is Chen Liuren.
The family is poor, and there are six brothers who alternately wear the same clothes.
Li Chong's wife quietly said to Li Chong: We are so poor now. We can't stay like this for a long time. I have private money, so I think it's better to live separately.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
充伪酬之曰： 如欲别居，当醖酒具会，请呼乡里内外，共议其事。
妇从充置酒晏客。
充于坐中前跪曰母曰： 此妇无状，而教充离间母兄，罪合遣斥。
便呵叱其妇，逐令出门，妇衔涕而去。
坐中惊肃，因遂罢散。
充后遭母丧，行服墓次，人有盗其墓树者，充手自杀之。
服阕，立精舍讲授。
太守鲁平请署功曹，不就。
平怒，乃援充以捐沟中，因谪署县都亭长。
不得已，起亲职役。
后和帝公车征，不行。
延平中，诏公卿、中二千石各举隐士大儒，务取高行，以劝后进，特征充为博士。
时鲁平亦为博士，每与集会，常叹服焉。
充迁侍中。
大将军邓骘贵戚倾时，无所下借，以充高节，每卑敬之。
尝置酒请充，宾客满堂，酒酣，骘跪曰： 幸托椒房，位列上将。幕府初开，欲辟天下奇伟，以匡不逮，惟诸君博求其器。
充乃为陈海内隐居怀道之士，颇有不合，骘欲绝其说，以肉啖之。
充抵肉于地，曰： 说士犹甘于肉！
遂出，径去。
骘甚望之。
同坐汝南张孟举往让充曰： 一日闻足下与邓将军说士未究，激刺面折，不由中和，出言之责，非所以光祚子孙者也。
充曰： 大丈夫居世，贵行其意，何能远为子孙计哉！
translation: 
Li Chong pretended to answer her and said: If we want to separate, we should cook wine and eat. He called relatives and friends in and outside the village to discuss the matter together.
The wife bought wine and treated the guests as Li Chong said.
Li Chong knelt down at the banquet table and told his mother: "This woman is not a good person. She taught me to separate my mother and brother. According to her crime, she should be sent away."
So he immediately scolded his wife and kicked him out. The wife left with tears in her eyes.
The people sitting there were greatly surprised and did not dare to say anything. Everyone went back.
Later, when his mother died, Li Chong was guarding the tomb. Someone stole the tomb tree. Li Chong killed the person who stole the tree.
After the mourning period was over, he built a monastery and taught his students.
The prefect Lu Ping asked him to be a meritorious officer, but he refused.
Lu Ping was angry, pushed Li Chong into a ditch, and demoted him to acting county pavilion chief.
Li Chong had no choice but to take up his post.
Later, he and the emperor's official car were recruited, but it didn't work.
In Yanping, there were ministers from Zhaogong and Zhong Erqianshi, who each promoted hermits and great Confucian scholars. They required high moral cultivation and encouraged young people to advance. Li Chong was awarded the title of doctor.
Lu Ping was also a doctor at this time, and I admired him very much every time we attended gatherings.
Li Chong was promoted to Shizhong.
The general Deng Zhi was a noble relative and held great power in the world, so he looked down upon anyone, because Li Chong was a man of high integrity and was always respectful to others.
Once, a banquet was held for Li Chong, and the hall was full of guests. Deng Zhao knelt down and said: Thanks to the Queen, I am a general. The work in the government has just begun, and we need a group of talented people from all over the world to help where I can't. I hope you will recruit such talents widely.
Li Chong then stated that there were virtuous people living in seclusion in the country, but they did not satisfy the general. Deng Zhi wanted Li Chong to stop talking and persuaded him to eat a piece of meat.
Li Chong threw the meat to the ground and said, "Do scholars like to eat meat?"
After that, he got up and left.
Deng Zhi was very unhappy.
Zhang Mengju, who was sitting with him in Runan, went to criticize Li Chong and said: Yesterday, I heard that you had an endless conversation with General Deng. You provoked him in person and made him unable to step down. You spoke carelessly. This is not a blessing to your descendants.
Li Chong said: "What a man values ​​in life is to do his own thing. How can he care about his descendants?"


Chunk 24: 
original: 
由是见非于贵戚。
迁左中郎将，年八十八，为国三老。
安帝常特进见，赐以几杖。
卒于家。
缪肜字豫公，汝南召陵人也。
少孤，兄弟四人，皆同财业。
及各娶妻，诸妇遂求分异，又数有斗争之言。
肜深怀愤叹，乃掩户自挝曰： 缪肜，汝修身谨行，学圣人之法，将以齐整风俗，奈何不能正其家乎！
弟及诸妇闻之，悉叩头谢罪，遂更为敦睦之行。
仕县为主簿。
时县令被章见考，吏皆畏惧自诬，而肜独证据其事。掠考苦毒，至乃体生虫蛆，因复传换五狱，逾涉四年，令卒以自免。
太守陇西梁湛召为决曹史。
安帝初，湛病卒官，肜送丧还陇西。
始葬，会西羌反叛，湛妻、子悉避乱它郡，肜独留不去，为起坟冢。
乃潜穿井旁以为窟室，昼则隐窜，夜则负士，及贼平而坟已立。
其妻、子意肜已死，还见大惊。
关西咸称传之，共给车马衣资，肜不受而归乡里。
辟公府，举尤异，迁中牟令。
县近京师，多权豪。肜到，诛诸奸吏及托名贵戚宾客者百有余人，威名遂行。
卒于官。
translation: 
Therefore, he was dissatisfied with his noble relatives.
He was promoted to General Zuo Zhonglang. He was eighty-eight years old and was the third elder of the country.
Emperor An often came to see him and gave him a few sticks.
Die at home.
◆Miao Shu's biography, Miao Shu's courtesy name was Duke of Yu, and he was a native of Zhaoling, Runan.
When he was young, his father died, and his four brothers shared a share of the family property.
After the brothers got married, their wives asked for separation and they often quarreled.
Miao Xu was extremely angry and hit himself for closing the door. He said: "Miao Xu, you cultivate your moral character and learn the ways of saints because you want to straighten the customs. Why can't you straighten your own family?"
After hearing this, Miao Xu's younger brother and each of their wives kowtowed and apologized, and the family became a harmonious and moral family.
Miao Xu became an official in the county and was the chief bookkeeper.
At this time, the county magistrate was accused and put on trial. The officials were all afraid and confessed their innocence. Only Miao Xu was the only one to prove his innocence.
Liang Zhan, the prefect of Longxi, summoned Miao Xu to be the judge of Cao Shi.
In the early years of Emperor An's reign, Liang Zhan died in his official residence, and Miao Wei returned to Longxi in mourning.
At the beginning of the burial, when the Xiqiang rebelled, all Liang Zhan's wives fled to other counties to escape the rebellion. Miao Wei stayed there alone to build a tomb for Liang Zhan.
A secret room was built next to the well. He hid in it during the day and built a tomb with earth at night. When the Qiang thieves were put down, the tomb was also built.
Liang Zhan's wife thought Miao Xu was dead long ago. When she came back to see him, she was greatly surprised.
There is a legend in Guanxi that Miao Xu was given gifts of carriages, horses, clothes, and money, but Miao Xu refused to accept them and went home.
The government conscripted him, and he was promoted to Zhong Mou Ling.
The county was close to the capital, and there were many prominent and powerful people. When Miao Wei took office, he executed a group of traitors and more than a hundred people who had entrusted noble relatives and guests to death, which made him famous.
Die in office.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
陈重字景公，豫章宜春人也。
少与同郡雷义为友，俱学《鲁诗》、《颜氏春秋》。
太守张云举重孝廉，重以让义，前后十余通记，云不听。
义明年举孝廉，重与俱在郎署。
有同署郎负息钱数十万，责主日至，诡求无已，重乃密以钱代还。
郎后觉知而厚辞谢之。
重曰： 非我之为，将有同姓名者。
终不言惠。
又同舍郎有告归宁者，误持邻舍郎绔以去。
主疑重所取，重不自申说，而市绔以偿之。
后宁丧者归，以绔还主，其事乃显。
重后与义俱拜尚书郎，义代同时人受罪，以此黜退。重见义去，亦以病免。
后举茂才，除细阳令。
政有异化，举尤异，当迁为会稽太守，遭姊忧去官。
后为司徒所辟，拜侍御史，卒。
雷义字仲公，豫章鄱阳人也。
初为郡功曹，尝擢举善人，不伐其功。
translation: 
◆Chen Chongchuan, courtesy name Jinggong, was a native of Yichun County, Yuzhang County.
When he was young, he was friends with Lei Yi, who was from the same county, and they both studied "Lu Shi" and "Yan's Spring and Autumn Annals".
The prefect Zhang Yun promoted Chen Chong to Xiao Lian, and Chen Chong gave it to Lei Yi. He wrote more than ten letters successively, but Zhang Yun refused to obey him.
In the second year of Lei Yi's promotion of filial piety and integrity, Chen Chong and Lei Yi were both at the Lang Office.
There was a colleague who owed hundreds of thousands of dollars in interest. Creditors came every day to press for debts, so Chen Chong secretly paid the money back on his behalf.
The same official later found out and thanked him profusely.
Chen Zhongdao: I didn't return it on my behalf, it was probably someone with the same name as me who did it.
He never said that he paid the interest on his behalf.
Another fellow servant went home to visit his relatives and mistakenly took away a pair of trousers belonging to his neighbor.
The owner suspected that Chen Zhong had taken it, but Chen Zhong refused to tell him and bought a pair of pants to return to him.
Later, the person who returned home came back and returned the pants to the owner, and the matter became clear.
After Chen Chong and Lei Yi were both appointed ministers, Lei Yi suffered on behalf of his contemporaries and was deposed. When Chen Chong saw Lei Yi being deposed, he also resigned due to illness.
Later, he promoted outstanding talents and was awarded Xiyang Order.
He had special political achievements and extraordinary achievements. He was about to be promoted to the prefect of Kuaiji, but his sister mourned him and he resigned.
Later, he was recruited by Situ and appointed as a censor. He died.
◆Lei Yi Zhuan, whose courtesy name is Zhonggong, was born in Poyang County, Yuzhang County.
He first served as a meritorious officer, promoted good people, and did not take credit for himself.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
义尝济人死罪，罪者后以金二斤谢之，义不受。
金主伺义不在，默投金于承尘上。
后葺理屋宇，乃得之。
金主已死，无所复还，义乃以付县曹。
后举孝廉，拜尚书侍郎，有同时郎坐事，当居刑作。义默自表取其罪，以此论司寇。
同台郎觉之，委位自上，乞赎义罪。
顺帝诏皆除刑。
义归，举茂才，让于陈重，刺史不听，义遂阳狂被发走，不应命。
乡里为之语曰： 胶漆自谓坚，不如雷与陈。
三府同时俱辟二人。
义遂为守灌谒者。
使持节督郡国行风俗，太守令长坐者凡七十人。
旋拜侍御史，除南顿令，卒官。
子授，官至苍梧太守。
范冉字史云，陈留外黄人也。
少为县小吏，年十八，奉檄迎督邮，冉耻之，乃遁去。
translation: 
Lei Yi once saved a man from death. The sinner later thanked him with two pounds of gold, but Lei Yi did not accept it.
When the gold owner saw that Lei Yi was not around, he quietly placed the gold on the tent on the hanging bed to catch the dust.
It was only after repairing the house and cleaning that I discovered it.
The gold owner was dead and could not be returned, so Lei Yi had no choice but to send the gold to the county.
Later, he was promoted to be Xiaolian and was appointed Minister of the Secretariat. His fellow minister committed a crime and should be punished. Lei Yi silently confessed his crime, so he was punished as a military officer and sent to the border to guard against the enemy.
Tongtai Lang found out about it, resigned from his position and asked for atonement for Lei Yi's crime.
Emperor Shun's edict removed all their punishments.
Lei Yi returned to the county and promoted his talents to Chen Chong, but the governor refused. Lei Yi pretended to be crazy and ran away with his hair scattered, not obeying his orders.
The villagers made a jingle and said: Glue paint is said to be strong, not as good as Lei and Chen.
The three governments recruited them at the same time.
Lei Yi was the agent of the envoy.
The envoy Chijie inspected the customs of the county and state, and a total of seventy people were convicted by the prefect.
Soon after, he was awarded the title of Imperial Censor and served as the Nandun Order. He died in office.
His son Lei Shou was promoted to the prefect of Cangwu.
◆Fan Ran's biography, Fan Ran's courtesy name is Shi Yun, Chen Liuwai is a yellow man.
When he was young, he was a county official. At the age of eighteen, he was ordered to welcome the postal supervisor. Fan Ran thought it was shameful and ran away to another place.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
到南阳，受业于樊英。
又游三辅，就马融通经，历年乃还。
冉好违时绝俗，为激诡之行。常慕梁伯鸾、闵仲叔之为人。
与汉中李固、河内王奂亲善，而鄙贾伟节、郭林宗焉。
奂后为考城令，境接外黄，屡遣书请冉，冉不至。
及奂迁汉阳太守，将行，冉乃与弟协步赍麦酒，于道侧设坛以待之。
冉见奂车徒骆驿，遂不自闻，惟与弟共辩论于路。
奂识其声，即下车与相揖对。
奂曰： 行路仓卒，非陈契阔之所，可共到前亭宿息，以叙分隔。
冉曰： 子前在考城，思欲相从，以贱质自绝豪友耳。
今子远适千里，会面无期，故轻行相候，以展诀别。
如其相追，将有慕贵之讥矣。
便起告违，拂衣而去。
奂瞻望弗及，冉长逝不顾。
桓帝时，以冉为莱芜长，遭母忧，不到官。
后辟太尉府，以狷急不能从俗，常佩韦于朝。
议者欲以为侍御史，因遁身逃命于梁沛之间，徒行敝服，卖卜于市。
translation: 
He went to Nanyang and studied under Fan Ying.
He traveled to Sanfu again and studied the art of menstruation with Ma Rong. After a few years, he returned.
Fan Ran is a maverick, and what he does often goes against the times and is unconventional. I often envy Liang Boluan and Min Zhongshu for their conduct.
He was very close to Li Gu of Hanzhong and Wang Huan of Hanoi. But he despises Jia Weijie, Guo Linzong and others.
Wang Huan later served as the magistrate of Kaocheng, and the county bordered Waihuang. He wrote to Fan Ran many times, asking him to go, but Fan Ran did not go.
Wang Huan was promoted to the Grand Administrator of Hanyang. When he was about to leave, Fan Rancai and his younger brother Fan Xie carried ale on foot and set up an altar beside the road to wait for Wang Huan.
When Fan Ran saw Wang Huan's entourage in his car, there was an endless stream of people, so he didn't tell Wang Huan and just argued with his younger brother on the roadside.
Wang Huan heard that it was Fan Ran's voice and immediately got out of the car to meet him.
Wang Huan said: "We are in a hurry on the road. This is not the place to talk about our farewell feelings. You can come with me to the front pavilion to rest and have a good talk."
Fan Ran said: You were in Kaocheng, and I wanted to go there, but because you were poor and lowly, you didn't dare to climb high, so you cut yourself off from wealthy friends.
Now you have traveled thousands of miles and there is no chance to meet you, so my brother and I are waiting for you here to say goodbye to you.
If I go with you, it will attract ridicule from Mu Gui.
Then he got up and said goodbye, brushed his clothes and left.
Wang Huan kept looking at Fan Ran until he could no longer see him, but Fan Ran left without looking back.
During the reign of Emperor Huan, Fan Ran was appointed as the chief of Laiwu, but his mother died and he could not take up the post.
Later, he was recruited to the Taiwei Mansion. Because he was too radical and could not follow the secular rules, he often encouraged himself in the court.
Public opinion wanted him to serve as an official, so he fled in hiding between Liang and Pei. He walked on the road with no clothes and sold divination in the market.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
遭党人禁锢，遂推鹿车，载妻子，捃拾自资。或寓息客庐，或依宿树廕。
如此十余年，乃结草室而居焉。
所止单陋，有时粮粒尽，穷居自若，言貌无改。
闾里歌之曰： 甑中生尘范史云，釜中生鱼范莱芜。
及党禁解，为三府所辟，乃应司空命。
是时西羌反叛，黄巾作难，制诸府掾属，不得妄有去就。冉首自劾退，诏书特原不理罪。
又辟太尉府，以疾不行。
中平二年，年七十四，卒于家。
临命遗令敕其子曰： 吾生于昏暗之世，值乎淫侈之俗，生不得匡世济时，死何忍自同于世！
气绝便敛，敛以时服，衣足蔽形，棺足周身，敛毕便穿，穿毕便埋。
其明堂之奠，干饭寒水，饮食之物，勿有所下。
translation: 
He was imprisoned by the party members and was not allowed to be an official for life. Pushing a deer cart, carrying his wife and son, he collects wheat and makes a living. Sometimes he rests in an inn, sometimes he sleeps under a tree.
After more than ten years of this, I built a thatched house and lived in it.
The place where he lived was remote, and sometimes there was no food, but Fan Ran was at ease, and his speech and appearance did not change.
Lu Liwei's song says: Dust is born in the steamer, Fan Shiyun, fish is born in the cauldron, Fan Laiwu.
After the party ban was lifted, he was recruited by the three governments and accepted Sikong's orders.
At this time, the Xiqiang people rebelled and the Yellow Turbans started a rebellion. The imperial court ordered the officials of each government not to enter the country without permission. Fan Ran himself requested to be dismissed from his post as a crime, and the edict was written to forgive him regardless of the crime.
He also summoned the captain's mansion, but he refused to go because he was ill.
In the second year of Zhongping, he died at home at the age of seventy-four.
When he was dying, he told his son in his will: I was born in a dull and dark era, and coincided with the social customs of licentiousness and luxury. When life cannot save the world, how can death be the same as the world!
When the breath is gone, I bury my body in ordinary clothes. The clothes only need to be able to cover my body. The coffin only needs to be able to hold my body. After the burial, I dig a hole. Once the hole is dug, I bury it.
No need for memorial service in Kuangzhong, food, water, or food.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
坟封高下，令足自隐。
知我心者，李子坚、王子炳也。今皆不在，制之在尔，勿令乡人宗亲有所加也。
于是三府各遣令史奔吊。
大将军何进移书陈留太守，累行论谥，佥曰宜为贞节先生。
会葬者二千余人，刺史郡守各为立碑表墓焉。
戴就字景成，会稽上虞人也。
仕郡仓曹掾，杨州刺史欧阳参奏太守成公浮臧罪，遣部从事薛安案仓库簿领，收就于钱唐县狱。
幽囚考掠，五毒参至。
就慷慨直辞，色不变容。
又烧鋘斧，使就挟于肘腋。
就语狱卒： 可熟烧斧，勿令冷。
每上彭考，因止饭食不肯下，肉焦毁墯地者，掇而食之。
主者穷竭酷惨，无复余方，乃卧就覆船下，以马通薰之。
一夜二日，皆谓已死，发船视之，就方张眼大骂曰： 何不益火，而使灭绝！
又复烧地，以大针刺指爪中，使以把土，爪悉墯落。
translation: 
The height of the tomb should be such that a person's elbows can be hidden when standing.
The two people who know my thoughts are Li Zijian and Wang Zibing. They are neither here now. It is a rule not to increase the number of villagers, clans, relatives and friends.
So each faction in the two governments ordered Shi to attend the funeral to pay his respects.
General He Jin wrote to Grand Administrator Chen Liu, collecting information about Fan Ransheng's parallel affairs, and decided on a posthumous title. Everyone agreed that he should be named Mr. Chastity.
More than 2,000 people attended the funeral, and the governors and governors each erected monuments in honor of Fan Ran.
◆Dai Jiuzhuan, whose courtesy name was Jingcheng, was from Shangyu County, Kuaiji County.
When he became an official in Cao Cao's office in the county, Ouyang, the governor of Yangzhou, participated in the impeachment of the eunuch on the charge of corruption. He sent troops to investigate Xue An's warehouse files and account books, and arrested Dai and sent him to Qiantang County Prison.
Deep prison torture, five poisonous tortures: whip, scour, burn, emblem, and black ink, used interchangeably.
Dai is generous, dares to speak, and his color remains unchanged.
He also burned a Wu ax and ordered him to wear it, then held it in his elbow and armpit.
Dai then said to the jailer: "Burn the ax thoroughly and don't let it get cold."
Every time he took the exam, because he stopped eating and refused to eat, the meat was burnt and rotten. If it fell on the ground, Dai would pick it up and eat it.
After all the torture methods used by the interrogators were exhausted, and there was no other method available, Dai was asked to lie under the boat and smoked with horse dung.
For two days and one night, everyone said that Dai had been suffocated to death. When he turned the boat over, Dai opened his eyes and cursed: "Why don't you add a little fire to kill the suffocation!"
He was burned again, and a large needle was used to pierce his fingernails, causing them to scratch into the dirt, and the nails were completely damaged.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
主者以状白安，安呼见就，谓曰： 太守罪秽狼藉，受命考实，君何故以骨肉拒扞邪？
就据地答言： 太守剖符大臣，当以死报国。
卿虽衔命，固宜申断冤毒，奈何诬枉忠良，强相掠理，令臣谤其君，子证其父！
薛安庸騃，忸行无义，就考死之日，当白之于天，与群鬼杀汝于亭中。
如蒙生全，当手刃相裂！
安深奇其壮节，即解械，更与美谈，表其言辞，解释郡事。
征浮还京师，免归乡里。
太守刘宠举就孝廉，光禄主事，病卒。
赵苞字威豪，甘陵东武城人。
从兄忠，为中常侍，苞深耻其门族有宦官名势，不与忠交通。
初仕州郡，举孝廉，再迁广陵令。
translation: 
The interrogator told Xue An about this situation, and An called Dai over and said to him: "The prefect has committed many crimes. I was ordered to test the truth. Why did you resist with your flesh and blood?"
Dai Jiuzhi replied: "The prefect cut the talisman and the minister should die to serve the country."
Although you were ordered to interrogate and should have redressed the injustice, why did you frame Zhongliang, forcefully extract a confession, and make the ministers slander the king, and the son testified against the father!
You, Xue An, are mediocre and foolish, and are accustomed to doing injustice. The day I am tortured to death, I will tell God that I will kill you in the pavilion with the ghosts.
If I don't die, I will kill you with my own hands and tear your body apart.
Xue An admired Dai Jiu's righteousness and heroism very much, so he immediately removed his shackles and handcuffs, and then had a good talk with him, praising his words and explaining county affairs.
When Zheng Chenggong returned to the capital, he was dismissed from his post and sent back to his hometown.
The prefect Liu Chong promoted Dai to be Xiaolian, and Guanglu was in charge. He died of illness.
◆Zhao Bao's biography, Zhao Bao's courtesy name was Weihao, and he was a native of Dongwucheng, Ganling.
Zhao Zhong, his uncle's brother, was a regular attendant. Zhao Bao considered it a great shame and humiliation for his family to have a eunuch and refused to associate with Zhao Zhong.
He first came out of Shizhou County, promoted filial piety and integrity, and was promoted to the order of Guangling.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
视事三年，政教清明，郡表其状，迁辽西太守。
抗厉威严，名振边俗。
以到官明年，遣使迎母及妻子，垂当到郡，道经柳城，值鲜卑万余人入塞寇钞，苞母及妻子遂为所劫质，载以击郡。
苞率步骑二万，与贼对阵。
贼出母以示苞，苞悲号谓母曰： 为子无状，欲以微禄奉养朝夕，不图为母作祸。
昔为母子，今为王臣，义不得顾私恩、毁忠节，唯当万死，无以塞罪。
母遥谓曰： 威豪，人各有命，何得相顾，以亏忠义！
昔王陵母对汉使伏剑，以固其志，尔其勉之。
苞即时进战，贼悉摧破，其母妻皆为所害。
苞殡敛母毕，自上归葬。
灵帝遣策吊慰，封鄃侯。
苞葬讫，谓乡人曰： 食禄而避难，非忠也；杀母以全义，非孝也。
translation: 
After serving for three years, he was politically educated during the Qingming Dynasty. The commander-in-chief reported to the imperial court and reported Zhao Bao's actions, and he was promoted to the prefect of Western Liaoning.
Acting vigorously and resolutely, his reputation spreads far and wide.
In the second year after taking office, Zhao Bao sent someone to greet his mother, wife and son. When he was about to arrive at the county, he passed through Liucheng and encountered more than 10,000 Xianbei invaders and invaded and plundered the fortress.
Zhao Bao led 20,000 infantry and cavalry to confront the thieves.
The thief brought Zhao Bao's mother to the battlefield to show him. Zhao Bao cried out in grief and said to his mother: "You are useless as a son. I want to get a little salary to support my mother, but I didn't expect to harm my mother."
He used to be his mother's son, but now he is the emperor's minister. He has no regard for personal favors due to his righteousness, and if he violates his loyalty, he can only be punished by death.
The mother said to Zhao Bao from a distance: Weihao, everyone has his own destiny, how can we care about each other and compromise our loyalty!
In the past, Wang Ling's mother killed an envoy of the Han Dynasty with her sword in order to strengthen Wang Ling's ambition. You should encourage her!
Zhao Bao immediately attacked and defeated all the thieves. However, Zhao Bao's mother, wife, and son were all killed by the thieves.
After Zhao Bao buried his mother, he petitioned to be buried.
Emperor Ling sent someone to express his condolences and named Zhao Bao the Marquis of Yu.
After Zhao Bao buried his mother, he said to the villagers: "It would be unfaithful to escape calamity by eating salary; it would be unfilial to kill one's mother to show justice."


Chunk 32: 
original: 
如是，有何面目立于天下！
遂欧血而死。
向栩字甫兴，河内朝歌人，向长之后也。
少为书生，性卓诡不伦。
恒读《老子》，状如学道。
又似狂生，好被发，著绛绡头。常于灶北坐板床上，如是积久，板乃有膝踝足指之处。
不好语言而喜长啸。
宾客从就，辄伏而不视。
有弟子，名为 颜渊 、 子贡 、 季路 、 冉有 之辈。
或骑驴入市，乞丐于人。或悉要诸乞兒俱归止宿，为设酒食。
时人莫能测之。
郡礼请辟，举孝廉、贤良方正、有道，公府辟，皆不到。
又与彭城姜肱、京兆韦著并征，栩不应。
后特征，到，拜赵相。
及之官，时人谓其必当脱素从俭，而栩更乘鲜车，御良马，世疑其始伪。
及到官，略不视文书，舍中生蒿莱。
translation: 
What kind of appearance does such a person have in this world?
Died from vomiting blood.
◆Xiang Xuchuan, Xiangxu's son Xingxing, Hanoi Chaoge people, descendants of Xiang Chang.
When he was young, he was a Zhusheng with a weird and unruly temperament.
He often reads "Laozi" and seems to be a scholar.
He is also like a madman. He likes to wear his hair disheveled and wear red raw silk hair. He often sits on the wooden bed in Zaobei. He has been like this for many years, leaving traces of his knees, ankles, and toes on the bed.
He doesn't like to talk, but he likes to shout loudly.
What the guests wanted to do from him was often hidden.
There were disciples named Yan Yuan, Zigong, Ji Lu and Ran You.
Sometimes he rides a donkey into the market and begs for food from people; sometimes he invites all the beggars to stay at his house and provides food and drinks for them.
At that time people did not know his depth.
The county prepared gifts to invite people to be recruited, commending them as filial, honest, virtuous, upright, and upright. However, when the government called for recruitment, they did not go.
He was recruited along with Jiang Gong from Pengcheng and Wei Zhu from Jingzhao, but Xiang Xu did not respond.
Later, the characteristics of the imperial court came and he was awarded the title of Prime Minister of Zhao.
When he went to take office, people at the time said that Xiang Xu would remain frugal, but Xiang Xu instead rode in a gorgeous car and drove a good horse. The public suspected that he was a hypocrite.
After taking office, he did not read any documents, and the official residence was overgrown with wormwood.


Chunk 33: 
original: 
征拜侍中，每朝廷大事，侃然正色，百官惮之。
会张角作乱，栩上便宜，颇讥刺左右，不欲国家兴兵，但遣将于河上北向读《孝经》，贼自当消灭。
中常侍张让谗栩不欲令国家命将出师，疑与角同心，欲为内应。
收送黄门北寺狱，杀之。
谅辅字汉儒，广汉新都人也。
仕郡为五官掾。
时夏大旱，太守自出祈祷山川，连日而无所降。
辅乃自暴庭中，慷慨咒曰： 辅为股肱，不能进谏纳忠，荐贤退恶，和调阴阳，承顺天意，至令天地否隔，万物焦枯，百姓喁喁，无所诉告，咎尽在辅。
今郡太守改服责己，为民祈福，精诚恳到，未有感彻。
辅今敢自祈请，若至日中不雨，乞以身塞无状。
于是积薪柴聚茭茅以自环，搆火其旁，将自焚焉。
未及日中时，而天云晦合，须臾澍雨，一郡沾润，世以此称其志诚。
translation: 
When serving in the conscription and conferment service, whenever there is an important event in the court, he behaves solemnly and solemnly, and all the officials are afraid of him.
When Zhang Jiao was in trouble, he wrote to Xu stating the interests and gains of the country. He slightly mocked the people around the emperor, saying that if the country did not want to use troops, as long as the generals were sent to read the "Book of Filial Piety" facing north on the river, the thieves would naturally be eliminated.
Zhang Rang, the constant servant of the Central Committee, falsely accused Xiang Xu of not wanting to send a general who was ordered by the country to leave the army. He suspected that Xiang Xu and Zhang Jiao were from the same group and wanted to act as insiders.
Arrest him, send him to Huangmen Beisi Prison, and kill him.
◆Lang Fu Chuan, courtesy name Han Ru, was born in Xindu, Guanghan.
The official county is Wuguanbu.
There was a severe drought in the summer, and the prefect went out to pray for the mountains and rivers in person, and it didn't rain for days.
Liangfu then exposed himself naked in the court, and prayed impassionedly: "I, Liangfu, are the assistants of the prefect, just like my brothers and sisters. I cannot advise the loyal, promote the virtuous, repel the bad, adjust the yin and yang, and obey the will of God, so that the heaven and the earth are not separated, all things are scorched, and the people stretch their necks to look at each other. There is no place to complain. The blame is all my fault."
Now the prefect changed his clothes and blamed himself. He prayed for the blessings of the people sincerely and sincerely, but he did not get the inspiration from heaven.
I've decided to plead for mercy now. If it doesn't rain by noon, please use my body to counteract my immorality.
So he surrounded himself with firewood and hay, placed the fire next to it, and prepared to ignite the fire and burn himself.
Before noon, the sky suddenly became cloudy and it rained heavily, moistening the entire county. At that time, the society said that it was his sincerity.


Chunk 34: 
original: 
刘翊字子相，颍川颍阴人也。
家世丰产，常能周旋而不有其惠。
曾行于汝南界中，有陈国张季礼远赴师丧，遇寒冰车毁，顿滞道路。
翊见而谓曰： 君慎终赴义，行宜速达。
即下车与之，不告姓名，自策马而去。
季礼意其子相也，后故到颍阴，还所假乘。
翊闭门辞行，不与相见。
常守志卧疾，不屈聘命。
河南种拂临郡，引为功曹，翊以拂名公之子，乃为起焉。
拂以其择时而仕，甚敬任之。
阳翟黄纲恃程夫人权力，求占山泽以自营植。
拂召翊问曰： 程氏贵盛，在帝左右，不听则恐见怨，与之则夺民利，为之奈何？
翊曰： 名山大泽不以封，盖为民也。
明府听之，则被佞倖之名矣。若以此获祸，贵子申甫，则自以不孤也。
拂从翊言，遂不与之。
乃举翊为孝廉，不就。
后黄巾贼起，郡县饥荒，翊救给乏绝，盗其食者数百人。
translation: 
◆The biography of Liu Yi, named Zixiang, was born in Yingyin, Yingchuan.
My family has been a wealthy family for generations and has often helped the poor, but I don't think I have done any good deeds.
I once traveled to the territory of Runan and met Zhang Jili of Chen State who was going to mourn his master. The car was damaged by strong water and blocked on the road.
Liu Yi saw it and asked: "When you go to the teacher's funeral, you should arrive quickly."
He got out of the car immediately and gave the car to Zhang Jili. Without even telling him his name, he whipped his horse and drove away.
Zhang Jili guessed that it was Liu Zixiang, and later made a special trip to Yingyin to return the car to him.
Liu Yi said goodbye behind closed doors and did not see him.
I usually keep my mind and recuperate at home, and do not apply for jobs against my will.
Zhongfu from Henan came to the county and cited Liu Yi as a meritorious official. Liu Yi believed that Zhongfu was the son of a famous feudal lord and came to serve.
Zhong Fu believed that Liu Yi had chosen the right time to become an official and respected him very much.
Relying on Mrs. Cheng's power, Huang Gang of Yangzhai demanded that the mountains and swamps be occupied for planting.
Zhong Fu summoned Liu Yi and asked: "The Cheng family is Guisheng, and if he is not allowed to be around the emperor, he is afraid of causing resentment. If he gives it to him, it will usurp the interests of the people. What should we do?"
Liu Yi said: Famous mountains and great rivers are not for the sake of people, but for the common people.
If the prefect complies with his request, he will gain a reputation as a flatterer. If he gets into trouble as a result, his master, Shenfu, will not become an orphan.
Zhong Fu listened to Liu Yi's words and refused to give Huang Gang.
So Liu Yi was promoted to be filial and honest, but he refused.
Later, when the Yellow Turban bandits broke out and there was a famine in the counties, Liu Yi helped hundreds of hungry people.


Chunk 35: 
original: 
乡族贫者，死亡则为具殡葬，嫠独则助营妻娶。
献帝迁都西京，翊举上计掾。
是时寇贼兴起，道路隔绝，使驿稀有达者。
翊夜行昼伏，乃到长安。
诏书嘉其忠勤，特拜议郎，迁陈留太守。
翊散所握珍玩，唯余车马，自载东归。
出关数百里，见士大夫病亡道次，翊以马易棺，脱衣敛之。
又逢知故困馁于路，不忍委去，因杀所驾牛，以救其乏。
众人止之，翊曰： 视没不救，非志士也。
遂俱饿死。
王烈字彦方，太原人也。
少师事陈寔，以义行称乡里。
有盗牛者，主得之，盗请罪曰： 刑戮是甘，乞不使王彦方知也。
烈闻而使人谢之，遗布一端。
或问其故，烈曰： 盗惧吾闻其过，是有耻恶之心。
translation: 
For poor families in the countryside, the dead are helped to bury, and the widows and widowers are helped to marry.
Emperor Xian moved the capital to Xijing, and Liu Yi was appointed as the chief minister.
At this time, thieves were everywhere and the roads were blocked, making it very difficult to reach the post.
Liu Yi left at night and hid during the day before arriving in Chang'an.
The imperial edict commended his loyalty and diligence, and he was specially appointed as Yiyi Lang and promoted to Chenliu Grand Administrator.
Liu Yi lost all his treasures, leaving only his carriage and horses, and rode back eastward.
After leaving the customs for hundreds of miles, I saw a scholar-official died of illness on the roadside with no one to bury him, so he traded a horse for a coffin and took off his clothes for burial.
He met his old friends who were hungry on the road, and couldn't bear to abandon them, so he killed the ox driving them to help them.
Many people asked him not to do this. Liu Yi said: "You are not a person with lofty ideals if you don't save someone in the face of death."
Because they all starved to death.
◆Biography of Wang Lie, courtesy name Yanfang, a native of Taiyuan.
He studied under Chen Chen when he was young and was famous for his righteous deeds.
There was a cattle thief in the village. The owner of the cattle caught the thief. The thief apologized and said, "I am willing to accept the punishment. Please don't let Wang Yanfang know about it."
When Wang Lie heard about it, he sent someone to thank him and gave him six feet of cloth.
Someone asked him the reason for this, and Wang Lie said: The thief is afraid that I will know his sins, and he is ashamed.


Chunk 36: 
original: 
既怀耻恶，必能改善，故以此激之。
后有老父遗剑于路，行道一人见而守之，至暮，老父还寻，得剑，怪而问其姓名，以事告烈。
烈使推求，乃先盗牛者也。
诸有争讼曲直，将质之于烈，或至涂而反，或望庐而还。
其以德感人若此。
察孝廉，三府并辟，皆不就。
遭黄巾、董卓之乱，乃避地辽东，夷人尊奉之。
太守公孙度接以昆弟之礼，访州政事，欲以为长史。
烈乃为商贾自秽，得免。
曹操闻烈高名，遣征不至。
建安二十四年，终于辽东，年七十八。
translation: 
Since he has a sense of shame, he must be able to change his evil ways and do good, so he is encouraged in this way.
Later, an old man lost his sword on the road. A passerby saw it and stood guard there. At night, the old man came back and found the sword. Strangely, he asked the man what his name was, but he didn't answer. So he told Wang Lie about this.
Wang Lie sent people to investigate and found out that it was the man who had stolen the cattle before.
When those who were arguing about the merits of the lawsuit were about to ask Wang Lie to judge the rights and wrongs, some walked back to the road, and some came back when they saw Wang Lie's house.
Wang Lie's virtue is so touching.
In order to promote filial piety and honesty, all three government officials failed to recruit him.
He was devastated by the Yellow Turban and Dong Zhuo wars and fled to Liaodong, where he was respected by the ethnic minorities.
The prefect Gongsun Du received him as a brother and asked about the political gains and losses.
Wanting to use him as a long history officer, Wang Lie made a deal and ruined himself, so that he could avoid being appointed as a long history officer by Gongsun Du.
Cao Cao knew that Wang Lie was famous and sent people to recruit him, but he didn't come.
He died in Liaodong in the 24th year of Jian'an at the age of seventy-eight.


