Chunk 0: 
original: 
召公奭与周同姓，姓姬氏。
周武王之灭纣，封召公於北燕。
其在成王时，召王为三公：自陕以西，召公主之；自陕以东，周公主之。
成王既幼，周公摄政，当国践祚，召公疑之，作君奭。
君奭不说周公。
周公乃称 汤时有伊尹，假于皇天；在太戊时，则有若伊陟、臣扈，假于上帝，巫咸治王家；在祖乙时，则有若巫贤；在武丁时，则有若甘般：率维兹有陈，保乂有殷 。
於是召公乃说。
召公之治西方，甚得兆民和。
召公巡行乡邑，有棠树，决狱政事其下，自侯伯至庶人各得其所，无失职者。
召公卒，而民人思召公之政，怀棠树不敢伐，哥咏之，作甘棠之诗。
translation: 
Zhao Gongxi has the same surname as the Zhou royal family, Ji.
After King Wu of Zhou destroyed King Zhou of Shang, he granted Duke Zhao a title in Northern Yan.
When King Cheng of Zhou was on the throne, Duke Zhao was in charge of the three Dukes: from the west of Shaanxi, Duke Zhao was in charge; from the east of Shaanxi, Duke Zhou was in charge.
At that time, King Cheng was still young, and Duke Zhou presided over the affairs of state on his behalf and held the power of the country, just like the emperor. Duke Zhao was suspicious of Duke Zhou's actions, so Duke Zhou wrote an article "Jun Shi" to express his confession.
Duke Zhao was still very dissatisfied with Duke Zhou.
Duke Zhou then praised the relevant historical facts of the Yin and Shang Dynasties and said: During the reign of Shang Tang, there was Yi Yin, whose merits reached heaven; during Taiwu's reign, there were people like Yi Zhi and Chen Hu, whose merits reached heaven, and Wu Xian managed the government; during Zu Yi's reign, there were people like Wu Xian; during Wu Ding's era, there were people like Gan Ban: these ministers all had the merit of assisting the king and presiding over governance, and the Yin Dynasty was governed and stabilized.
After hearing these words, Duke Zhao became happy.
Duke Zhao governed the western region and was deeply loved by the people.
When Zhao Gong went to inspect villages and towns, he saw a Tangli tree, and he judged lawsuits and handled political affairs under the tree. From marquises, counts to civilians, everyone has been properly accommodated, and there has been no neglect of duty.
After the death of Duke Zhao, the people missed his political achievements and the time when Duke Zhao handled political affairs under the Tangli tree. They were reluctant to cut down the trees and praised Duke Zhao, writing a poem called "Gantang".


Chunk 1: 
original: 
自召公已下九世至惠侯。
燕惠侯当周厉王奔彘、共和之时。
惠侯卒，子厘侯立。
是岁，周宣王初即位。
厘侯二十一年，郑桓公初封于郑。
三十六年，厘侯卒，子顷侯立。
顷侯二十年，周幽王淫乱，为犬戎所弑。
秦始列为诸侯。
二十四年，顷侯卒，子哀侯立。
哀侯二年卒，子郑侯立。
郑侯三十六年卒，子缪侯立。
缪侯七年，而鲁隐公元年也。
十八年卒，子宣侯立。
宣侯十三年卒，子桓侯立。
桓侯七年卒，子庄公立。
庄公十二年，齐桓公始霸。
十六年，与宋、卫共伐周惠王，惠王出奔温，立惠王弟颓为周王。
十七年，郑执燕仲父而内惠王于周。
translation: 
After Zhao Gong, it was passed down to Huihou through nine generations.
The reign of Yan Huihou coincided with the time when King Zhou Li fled to Pig, and when Zhou Dinggong and Zhaomu Gong were in power together.
Huihou died and his son Lihou came to the throne.
This year, King Zhou Xuan had just ascended the throne.
In the 21st year of Lihou, Duke Huan of Zheng was granted the title of Zheng.
In the thirty-sixth year, Lihou died and his son Qinghou came to the throne.
In the 20th year of Qinghou's reign, King You of Zhou committed adultery and was killed by Quan Rong.
Qin State began to be classified as vassals at this time.
Qinghou died in the twenty-fourth year of his reign, and his son Aihou came to the throne.
Marquis Ai died after reigning for two years, and his son Marquis Zheng came to the throne.
Zheng Hou died in the thirty-sixth year of his reign, and his son Miao Hou came to the throne.
The seventh year of Yan Muhou's reign was the first year of Lu Yin's reign.
Marquis Mu of Yan died in the eighteenth year of his reign, and his son Marquis Xuan came to the throne.
Xuanhou died in the thirteenth year of his reign, and his son Huanhou came to the throne.
Huan Hou died after reigning for seven years, and his son Zhuang Gong came to the throne.
In the twelfth year of Duke Zhuang, Duke Huan of Qi began to dominate.
In the 16th year, Yan State, Song State, and Wei State jointly attacked King Hui of Zhou. King Hui fled to Wendi. The three kingdoms supported King Hui's younger brother Decai as King of Zhou.
In the seventeenth year, Zheng Guo arrested Yan Zhongfu and escorted King Hui of Zhou back to Zhou Guo.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
二十七年，山戎来侵我，齐桓公救燕，遂北伐山戎而还。
燕君送齐桓公出境，桓公因割燕所至地予燕，使燕共贡天子，如成周时职；使燕复修召公之法。
三十三年卒，子襄公立。
襄公二十六年，晋文公为践土之会，称伯。
三十一年，秦师败于殽。
三十七年，秦穆公卒。
四十年，襄公卒，桓公立。
桓公十六年卒，宣公立。
宣公十五年卒，昭公立。
昭公十三年卒，武公立。
是岁晋灭三郄大夫。
武公十九年卒，文公立。
文公六年卒，懿公立。
懿公元年，齐崔杼弑其君庄公。
四年卒，子惠公立。
惠公元年，齐高止来奔。
六年，惠公多宠姬，公欲去诸大夫而立宠姬宋，大夫共诛姬宋，惠公惧，奔齐。
四年，齐高偃如晋，请共伐燕，入其君。
晋平公许，与齐伐燕，入惠公。
惠公至燕而死。
燕立悼公。
translation: 
In the twenty-seventh year, the Shan Rong invaded the Yan State. Duke Huan of Qi went to rescue the Yan State, so he led his troops north to attack the Shan Rong and then returned home.
Duke Zhuang of Yan sent Duke Huan of Qi out of the country, and Duke Huan of Qi ceded the place where Duke Zhuang of Yan went to the state of Yan. He asked Duke Zhuang of Yan and the princes to pay tribute to the emperor of Zhou, just like Duke Zhao of Yan during the reign of King Cheng of Zhou.
In the thirty-third year, Duke Zhuang died, and his son Duke Xiang came to the throne.
In the twenty-sixth year of Duke Xiang, Duke Wen of Jin convened the princes to meet in Jiantu to form an alliance and to dominate the princes.
In the thirty-first year, the Qin army was defeated by the Jin army in Miaoshan.
In the thirty-seventh year, Duke Mu of Qin passed away.
Forty years later, Duke Xiang of Yan died and Duke Huan ascended the throne.
Duke Huan died in the sixteenth year of his reign, and Duke Xuan ascended the throne.
Duke Xuan died in his fifteenth year and Duke Zhao ascended the throne.
Duke Zhao died in the thirteenth year of his reign, and Duke Wu ascended the throne.
This year, the Jin State executed Dr. Sanque.
Duke Wu died in the 19th year of his reign, and Duke Wen ascended the throne.
Duke Wen passed away in the sixth year of his reign, and Duke Yi ascended the throne.
In the first year of Yi AD, Cui Zhu of Qi killed his king Zhuang Gong.
Duke Yi died in the fourth year of his reign, and his son Duke Hui came to the throne.
In the first year of Huigong, Gaozhi of Qi State fled and came to Yan State.
In the past six years, Duke Hui had many concubines whom he favored. He planned to get rid of the officials and install a concubine named Song. The officials killed the concubine named Song together. Duke Hui was afraid and fled to Qi.
In the fourth year after he arrived in Qi State, Qi State sent Gao Yan to Jin State to request a joint attack on Yan State and send Duke Hui of Yan back to his country to become king.
Duke Ping of Jin agreed and joined Qi in attacking Yan and sent Duke Hui of Yan back to Yan.
Duke Hui died just after arriving in Yan State.
The people of Yan State supported Duke Mourning.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
悼公七年卒，共公立。
共公五年卒，平公立。
晋公室卑，六卿始强大。
平公十八年，吴王阖闾破楚入郢。
十七年卒，简公立。
简公十二年卒，献公立。
晋赵鞅围范、中行于朝歌。
献公十二年，齐田常弑其君简公。
十四年，孔子卒。
二十八年，献公卒，孝公立。孝公十二年，韩、魏、赵灭智伯，分其地，三晋强。
十五年，孝公卒，成公立。
成公十六年卒，愍公立。
愍公三十一年卒，厘公立。
是岁，三晋列为诸侯。
厘公三十年，伐败齐于林营。厘公卒，桓公立。
桓公十一年卒，文公立。
是岁，秦献公卒。秦益强。
文公十九年，齐威王卒。
translation: 
After reigning for seven years, Duke Du passed away and Duke Gong ascended the throne.
Duke Gong passed away after five years of reign, and Duke Ping ascended the throne.
At this time, the monarchy of Jin State was weakened, and the power of the six families including Fan, Zhongxing, Zhi, Zhao, Han and Wei began to grow.
In the eighteenth year of Ping Gong, King Helu of Wu conquered Chu and entered the capital of Ying.
Duke Ping died in the 19th year of his reign, and Duke Jian came to the throne.
Duke Jian died in the 12th year of his reign, and Duke Xian ascended the throne.
Zhao Yang of Jin State besieged Fan and Zhonghang families in Chaoge.
In the twelfth year of Xiangong's reign, Tian Chang of Qi State killed his king Jian Gong.
In the fourteenth year, Duke Xian died and Duke Xiao came to the throne.
In the twelfth year of Duke Xiao's reign, the three families of Han, Wei, and Zhao destroyed Zhibo and divided up his fiefdom. These three families gradually became stronger.
In the fifteenth year, Duke Xiao died and Duke Cheng ascended the throne.
Duke Cheng died in the sixteenth year of his reign, and Duke Min ascended the throne.
Duke Min died in the thirty-first year of his reign, and Duke Li ascended the throne.
In this year, Han, Zhao and Wei were classified as princes.
In the 30th year of Li Gong, Yan State conquered and defeated Qi State in Linying. Duke Li died and Duke Huan ascended the throne.
Duke Huan died in the eleventh year of his reign, and Duke Wen ascended the throne.
This year, Duke Xiang of Qin passed away, and the state of Qin became stronger.
In the nineteenth year of Duke Wen, King Wei of Qi passed away.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
二十八年，苏秦始来见，说文公。
文公予车马金帛以至赵，赵肃侯用之。
因约六国，为从长。
秦惠王以其女为燕太子妇。
二十九年，文公卒，太子立，是为易王。
易王初立，齐宣王因燕丧伐我，取十城；苏秦说齐，使复归燕十城。
十年，燕君为王。
苏秦与燕文公夫人私通，惧诛，乃说王使齐为反间，欲以乱齐。
易王立十二年卒，子燕哙立。
燕哙既立，齐人杀苏秦。
苏秦之在燕，与其相子之为婚，而苏代与子之交。
及苏秦死，而齐宣王复用苏代。
燕哙三年，与楚、三晋攻秦，不胜而还。
子之相燕，贵重，主断。
苏代为齐使于燕，燕王问曰： 齐王傒如？
translation: 
In the twenty-eighth year, Su Qin came to Yan State for the first time to pay homage to Duke Wen and talk about Duke Wen.
Duke Wen gave him vehicles, horses, gold and silk and asked him to go to Zhao. Marquis Su of Zhao reused him.
So Su Qin implemented a joint vertical policy with the six countries, and he became the vertical commander.
At this time, King Qin Hui married his daughter to the prince of Yan as his wife.
In the twenty-ninth year, Duke Wen died and the prince came to the throne. This was King Yi.
As soon as King Yi came to the throne, King Xuan of Qi took advantage of the opportunity to hold a funeral for Duke Wen to attack Yan and capture ten cities. Su Qin went to Qi to lobby and persuaded King Qi to return ten cities to Yan.
Ten years later, the king of Yan State officially became king.
Su Qin committed adultery with the wife of Duke Wen of Yan and was afraid of being killed, so he lobbied King Yi to send him as an envoy to Qi to stir up rebellion and disrupt Qi.
King Yi died in the 12th year, and his son King Kuai of Yan came to the throne.
After King Kuai of Yan came to the throne, the people of Qi killed Su Qin.
When Su Qin was in the State of Yan, he married his son-in-law, the Prime Minister of the state, Zi Zhi. Su Qin's younger brother Su Dai also had a close relationship with Zi Zhi.
After Su Qin's death, King Qi Xuan appointed Su Dai again.
In the third year of King Kuai of Yan, Yan united with Chu, Han, Zhao, and Wei to attack Qin, but failed to win and returned home.
At that time, Zizhi was the prime minister of the Yan State. He held a high position and was in charge of major national affairs.
When Su Dai went to Yan as an envoy from Qi, the king of Yan asked him: How is the king of Qi?


Chunk 5: 
original: 
对曰： 必不霸。
燕王曰： 何也？
对曰： 不信其臣。
苏代欲以激燕王以尊子之也。
于是燕王大信子之。
子之因遗苏代百金，而听其所使。
鹿毛寿谓燕王： 不如以国让相子之。
人之谓尧贤者，以其让天下于许由，许由不受，有让天下之名而实不失天下。
今王以国让于子之，子之必不敢受，是王与尧同行也。
燕王因属国于子之，子之大重。
或曰： 禹荐益，已而以启人为吏。
及老，而以启人为不足任乎天下，传之于益。
已而启与交党攻益，夺之。
天下谓禹名传天下于益，已而实令启自取之。
今王言属国于子之，而吏无非太子人者，是名属子之而实太子用事也。
王因收印自三百石吏已上而效之子之。
子之南面行王事，而哙老不听政，顾为臣，国事皆决于子之。
translation: 
Su Dai replied: He certainly cannot seek hegemony.
King Yan asked: Why?
He replied: He did not trust his ministers.
Su Dai wanted to use these words to stimulate King Yan and make him respect his son.
So King Yan trusted Zizhi very much.
Therefore, Zizhi gave Su Dai a hundred yi of gold and allowed him to use it as he pleased.
Lu Maoshou said to King Yan: You might as well give up the country to the Prime Minister.
The reason why people call Yao the king, virtuous and sage is because he gave up the world to Xu You, but Xu You did not accept it. Therefore, Yao had the reputation of giving up the world but actually did not lose the world.
If you give the country to your son now, he will definitely not dare to accept it. This shows that you and Yao have the same noble character.
King Yan then entrusted the country to Zi Zhi, and Zi Zhi's status became even more noble.
Someone said to King Yan: Yu recommended Boyi, but appointed Qi's ministers as officials.
When Yu was old, he thought that Qi was not enough to take on the important task of governing the world, so he passed the throne to Boyi.
Soon, Qijiu and his accomplices attacked Boyi and took away the throne.
Everyone in the world said that Dayu nominally passed the world to Boyi, but in fact he let Qi take it back.
Now the king says that he has entrusted the country to his son, but none of the officials is a minister who is not the prince. This is why he has entrusted the country to his son in name, but in fact the prince is still in charge.
King Yan then collected the seals of officials with a salary of more than 300 shi and gave them to Zizhi.
Zi Zhi sat on the throne facing south and exercised the power of the king. King Kuai of Yan no longer dealt with government affairs in his old age, but became a minister. All government affairs of the country were adjudicated by Zi Zhi.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
三年，国大乱，百姓恫恐。
将军市被与太子平谋，将攻子之。
诸将谓齐愍王曰： 因而赴之，破燕必矣。
齐王因令人谓燕太子平曰： 寡人闻太子之义，将废私而立公，饬君臣之义，明父子之位。
寡人之国小，不足以为先后。
虽然，则唯太子所以令之。
太子因要党聚众。将军市被围公宫，攻子之，不克。
将军市被及百姓反攻太子平，将军市被死，以徇。
因构难数月，死者数万，众人恫恐，百姓离志。
孟轲谓齐王曰： 今伐燕，此文、武之时，不可失也。
王因令章子将五都之兵，以因北地之众以伐燕。
士卒不战，城门不闭，燕君哙死，齐大胜。
燕子之亡二年，而燕人共立太子平，是为燕昭王。
燕昭王于破燕之后即位，卑身厚币以招贤者。
谓郭隗曰： 齐因孤之国乱而袭破燕，孤极知燕小力少，不足以报。
translation: 
Three years later, the Yan Kingdom was in chaos, and everyone was afraid.
Jiangjun City was plotted by Prince Ping and prepared to attack Zizhi.
The generals of the State of Qi said to King Qi Min: We take this opportunity to send troops to the State of Yan, and we will definitely defeat the State of Yan.
The King of Qi then sent someone to tell Prince Ping of Yan: I heard that the Prince upholds justice and will abolish private and public affairs, rectify the ethics of monarchs and ministers, and clarify the status of father and son.
My country is too small to follow you.
Even so, we are willing to obey the prince's orders.
Prince Ping then invited his companions to gather his disciples, and Jiangjun City was surrounded by the palace. They attacked Zi Zhi, but failed to capture it.
Jiangjun City was captured and Baiguan attacked Tai Ziping in turn. As a result, Jiangjunshi was killed in battle and his body was displayed to the public.
This caused chaos in the country for several months. Tens of thousands of people died, the people were very frightened, and the officials were disloyal.
Meng Ke said to King Qi: Now go to attack Yan State. This is a good opportunity for King Wen and King Wu of Zhou to attack Zhou. You must not miss it.
The King of Qi then ordered Zhang Zi to lead the troops from the five capitals and join the soldiers on the northern border to attack the State of Yan.
The soldiers of Yan State did not fight, and the city gates were not closed. The king of Yan died, and the Qi army was victorious.
In the second year after Yan Zi's death, the people of Yan State jointly supported Tai Ziping, who was King Zhao of Yan.
King Zhao of Yan came to the throne after the Yan Kingdom was conquered. He used his humility and generous gifts to recruit talented people.
He said to Guo Wei: The State of Qi took advantage of our domestic chaos and was unprepared to attack the State of Yan. I know that the State of Yan is small and weak, and does not have enough ability to take revenge.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
然诚得贤士以共国，以雪先王之耻，孤之愿也。
先生视可者，得身事之。
郭隗曰： 王必欲致士，先从隗始。
况贤于隗者，岂远千里哉！
于是昭王为隗改筑宫而师事之。
乐毅自魏往，邹衍自齐往，剧辛自赵往，士争趋燕。
燕王吊死问孤，与百姓同甘苦。
二十八年，燕国殷富，士卒乐轶轻战，于是遂以乐毅为上将军，与秦、楚、三晋合谋以伐齐。
齐兵败，愍王出亡于外。
燕兵独追北，入至临淄，尽取齐宝，烧其宫室宗庙。
齐城之不下者，独唯聊、莒、即墨，其余皆属燕，六岁。
昭王三十三年卒，子惠王立。
惠王为太子时，与乐毅有隙；及即位，疑毅，使骑劫代将。乐毅亡走赵。
translation: 
But if I can get wise men to rule the country together and wash away the shame of the late king, this is my wish.
When my husband sees such a suitable talent, I will definitely serve him personally.
Guo Wei said: If the king must recruit wise men, then he should start with me, Guo Wei.
As for those who are more worthy than me, will they still think that they are thousands of miles away and refuse to come?
So King Zhao rebuilt Guo Wei into a gorgeous residence and treated him with the highest level of etiquette as he would a teacher.
At this time, Le Yi came from Wei, Zou Yan came from Qi, Ju Xin came from Zhao, and the wise men rushed to Yan.
King Yan paid homage to the deceased, expressed condolences to the orphans, and shared the joys and sorrows with his ministers.
In the twenty-eighth year, the state of Yan became rich and prosperous, and its soldiers were willing to attack and were not afraid of war. King Yan then appointed Le Yi as general, and planned together with Qin, Chu, Zhao, Wei, Han and other countries to send troops to conquer Qi.
The Qi army was defeated and King Qi Min fled to other places.
The Yan army pursued the fleeing Qi army alone, invaded Linzi, the capital of Qi, seized all the treasures of Qi, and burned the ancestral temples and palaces of Qi.
The only cities in Qi State that were not captured were Liao, Ju and Jimo. The rest were subordinate to Yan State for six years.
King Zhao died in the thirty-third year of his reign, and his son King Hui came to the throne.
When King Hui was the crown prince, he had a quarrel with Le Yi; after he came to the throne, he did not trust Le Yi and asked Qi Jie to replace Le Yi as general.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
齐田单以即墨击败燕军，骑劫死，燕兵引归，齐悉复得其故城。
愍王死于莒，乃立其子为襄王。
惠王七年卒。韩、魏、楚共伐燕。
燕武成王立。
武成王七年，齐田单伐我，拔中阳。
十三年，秦败赵于长平四十余万。
十四年，武成王卒，子孝王立。
孝王元年，秦围邯郸者解去。
三年卒，子今王喜立。
今王喜四年，秦昭王卒。
燕王命相栗腹约欢赵，以五百金为赵王酒。
还报燕王曰： 赵王壮者皆死长平，其孤未壮，可伐也。
王召昌国君乐闲问之。
对曰： 赵四战之国，其民习兵，不可伐。
王曰： 吾以五而伐一。
对曰： 不可。
燕王怒，群臣皆以为可。
translation: 
Le Yi fled to Zhao State. With the strength of one city in Jimo, Qi State Tian Dan defeated the Yan State army and died in the battle. The Yan army retreated to its own country, and Qi State regained all its original cities.
King Min of Qi died in Jucheng, so the people of Qi supported his son as King Xiang.
King Hui passed away in the seventh year of his reign, and the three kingdoms of Han, Wei, and Chu jointly attacked Yan.
King Yan Wucheng ascended the throne.
In the seventh year of King Wucheng, Qi State Tian Dan conquered Yan State and captured Zhongyang.
In the thirteenth year, Qin defeated Zhao's army of more than 400,000 in Changping.
In the fourteenth year, King Wu Cheng died and his son King Xiao came to the throne.
In the first year of King Kao, the Qin army that besieged Handan lifted the siege and left Zhao.
King Xiao died after reigning for three years, and his son King Yan came to the throne.
In the fourth year of King Yan's reign, King Zhao of Qin passed away.
The King of Yan sent his Prime Minister Li Fu to establish a friendly alliance with the State of Zhao, and presented 500 yi of gold to the King of Zhao to buy wine and celebrate his birthday.
Li Fu returned to his country and reported to King Yan: "All the young and strong people in Zhao Kingdom died in Changping, and their children have not grown up yet. We can take the opportunity to attack Zhao Kingdom."
King Yan called King Lejian of Chang State to inquire about this matter.
Lejian replied: Zhao is a country that is surrounded by enemies and often fights wars. Its people are familiar with military affairs and cannot attack.
King Yan said: We are attacking one of them with five people.
Le Jian still replied: No.
King Yan was very angry. At this time, all the ministers thought it was okay to attack.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
卒起二军，车二千乘，栗腹将而攻鄗，卿秦攻代。
唯独大夫将渠谓燕王曰： 与人通关约交，以五百金饮人之王，使者报而反攻之，不祥，兵无成功。
燕王不听，自将偏军随之。
将渠引燕王绶止之曰： 王必无自往，往无成功。
王蹴之以足。
将渠泣曰： 臣非以自为，为王也！
燕军至宋子，赵使廉颇将，击破栗腹于鄗。
乐乘破卿秦于代。乐闲奔赵。
廉颇逐之五百余里，围其国。
燕人请和，赵人不许，必令将渠处和。
燕相将渠以处和。
赵听将渠，解燕围。
六年，秦灭东周，置三川郡。
七年，秦拔赵榆次三十七城，秦置大原郡。
九年，秦王政初即位。
十年，赵使廉颇将攻繁阳，拔之。
translation: 
The State of Yan finally sent out two armies with 2,000 chariots. Li Fu led the army to attack Hao, and Qing Qin led the army to attack Daidi.
Only the doctor told the king of Yan: "We communicated with others, made an alliance, took out five hundred yi of gold to toast their king, and then turned around and attacked them as soon as the envoy came back to report. This is unlucky, and the battle will not succeed."
King Yan couldn't listen, so he personally led the flanking troops and set off with the army.
He grabbed the seal belt around King Yan's waist to stop him and said: Your Majesty, you must not go there in person, otherwise you will not succeed!
King Yan kicked him away with his feet.
Jiang Qu cried and said: I am not doing it for myself, but for the king!
When the Yan army arrived at Songzi, Zhao sent Lian Po to lead his troops and defeated Li Fu at Cha.
Le Cheng also defeated Qing Qin in Dai Di. Lejian fled to Zhao State.
Lian Po pursued Yan for more than five hundred miles and surrounded the capital of Yan.
The people of Yan requested peace talks, but the people of Zhao refused, so they had to ask General Qu to come forward to preside over the peace talks.
The State of Yan appointed General Qu as prime minister and went to preside over the peace talks.
The State of Zhao listened to General Qu's request and lifted the siege of the State of Yan.
In the sixth year of King Yan's reign, the Qin State destroyed the Eastern Zhou Dynasty and established Sanchuan County.
In seven years, Qin State captured 37 cities including Yulin of Zhao State and established Taiyuan County.
In the ninth year, King Qin Yingzheng had just ascended the throne.
In the tenth year, the State of Zhao sent Lian Po to lead an army to attack Fanyang of the State of Wei and occupied it.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
赵孝成王卒，悼襄王立。
使乐乘代廉颇，廉颇不听，攻乐乘，乐乘走，廉颇奔大梁。
十二年，赵使李牧攻燕，拔武遂、方城。
剧辛故居赵，与庞暖善，已而亡走燕。
燕见赵数困于秦，而廉颇去，令庞暖将也，欲因赵毙攻之。
问剧辛，辛曰： 庞暖易与耳。
燕使剧辛将击赵，赵使庞暖击之，取燕军二万，杀剧辛。
秦拔魏二十城，置东郡。
十九年，秦拔赵之邺九城。
赵悼襄王卒。
二十三年，太子丹质于秦，亡归燕。
二十五年，秦虏灭韩王安，置颍川郡。
二十七年，秦虏赵王迁，灭赵。
赵公子嘉自立为代王。
燕见秦且灭六国，秦兵临易水，祸且至燕。
太子丹阴养壮士二十人，使荆轲献督亢地图于秦，因袭刺秦王。
秦王觉，杀轲，使将军王翦击燕。
二十九年，秦攻拔我蓟，燕王亡，徙居辽东，斩丹以献秦。
三十年，秦灭魏。
三十三年，秦拔辽东，虏燕王喜，卒灭燕。
是岁，秦将王贲亦虏代王嘉。
translation: 
At this time, King Zhao Xiaocheng passed away and King Mouxiang came to the throne.
King Mouxiang sent Lecheng to take over Lianpo's command, but Lianpo refused to obey orders and attacked Lecheng. Lecheng escaped, and Lianpo also fled to Daliang, the capital of Wei.
In the twelfth year, Zhao State sent Li Mu to attack Yan State and captured Wu Sui and Fangcheng.
When Ju Xin lived in the State of Zhao, he was very close to Pang Nuan, but later fled to the State of Yan.
King Yan saw that Zhao was besieged by Qin soldiers many times and Lian Po left Zhao. At this time, Pang Nuan was leading the army to fight, so he wanted to take advantage of Zhao's fatigue to attack it.
King Yan asked Ju Xin at this time, and Ju Xin said: Pang Nuan is easy to deal with.
The King of Yan sent Ju Xin to lead an army to attack the State of Zhao. The State of Zhao sent Pang Nuan to fight, captured 20,000 Yan troops, and killed Ju Xin.
At this time, Qin State captured twenty cities of Wei State and established Dongjun.
In the 19th year, Qin State captured nine cities including Ye of Zhao State.
King Zhao Daoxiang passed away.
In the twenty-third year, Prince Dan of Yan was sent to Qin as a hostage, but he escaped back to Yan.
In the twenty-fifth year, Qin captured Han Wangan, destroyed Han, and established Yingchuan County.
In the twenty-seventh year, Qin captured Zhao Wangqian and destroyed Zhao.
Prince Jia of the State of Zhao established himself as acting king.
The monarchs and ministers of the Yan State saw that the Qin State was about to destroy the six countries. The Qin army had already reached Yishui, and disaster was about to befall the Yan State.
Prince Dan of Yan secretly supported twenty warriors. At this time, he sent Jing Ke to present the map of Dukang to the King of Qin and took the opportunity to assassinate the King of Qin.
The King of Qin found out, killed Jing Ke, and sent General Wang Jian to attack Yan.
In the 29th year, the Qin army captured Ji, the capital of Yan State. King Yan fled and later moved to Liaodong. He killed Prince Dan and presented his head to Qin State.
Thirty years later, Qin destroyed Wei.
In the thirty-third year, the Qin army captured Liaodong, captured King Xi of Yan, and finally destroyed the Yan state.
This year, Qin general Wang Ben also captured Dai Wangjia.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
太史公曰：召公奭可谓仁矣！
甘棠且思之，况其人乎？
燕外迫蛮貉，内措齐、晋，崎岖强国之间，最为弱小，几灭者数矣。
然社稷血食者八九百岁，于姬姓独后亡，岂非召公之烈邪！
translation: 
Tai Shigong said: Zhao Gongxi can be called a virtuous person!
That Tangli tree is still missed by the people, let alone Zhao Gong himself?
Yan State was forced by barbarians externally and attacked by Qi and Jin internally. It struggled to survive among the powerful countries. It was the weakest and was almost destroyed many times.
However, the country lasted for eight or nine hundred years and finally perished among the princes surnamed Ji. Isn't this the merit of Duke Zhao?


