Chunk 0: 
original: 
冯异字公孙，颍川父城人也。
好读书，能《左氏春秋》、《孙子兵法》。
汉兵起，异以郡掾监五县，与父城长苗萌共城守，为王莽拒汉。
光武略地颍川，攻父城不下，屯兵巾车乡。
异间出行属县，为汉兵所执。
时异从兄孝及同郡丁綝、吕晏，并从光武，因共荐异，得召见。
异曰： 异一夫之用，不足为强弱。
有老母在城中，愿归据五城，以效功报德。 光武曰： 善。 异归，谓苗萌曰： 今诸将皆壮士屈起，多暴横，独有刘将军所到不虏掠。
观其言语举止，非庸人也，可以归身。 苗萌曰： 死生同命，敬从子计。 光武南还宛，更始诸将攻父城者前后十余辈，异坚守不下；及光武为司隶校尉，道经父城，异等即开门奉牛、酒迎。
光武署异为主簿，苗萌为从事。
translation: 
Feng Yi, also known as Gongsun, was a native of Fucheng County, Yingchuan County.
He loves reading and is familiar with Zuo's Spring and Autumn Annals and Sun Tzu's Art of War.
When the Han army rose, Feng Yi supervised the five counties as a county magistrate, and guarded the city together with Miao Meng, the magistrate of Fucheng County, to resist the Han army for Wang Mang.
Guangwu took over the territory of Yingchuan, unable to attack his father's city, and stationed troops in Dongxiang.
Feng Yiwei traveled to the county and was captured by Han soldiers.
At that time, Feng Yi's cousin Feng Xiao and fellow county residents Ding Jinlin and Lu Yan all followed Guangwu, so they jointly recommended Feng Yi and was summoned by Guangwu.
Feng Yi said: My role alone is not enough to make people stronger or weaker.
There is an old mother in the city who is willing to go back and occupy five cities to repay her kindness with her service. Guangwu said: OK. Feng Yi went back and said to Miao Meng: "Now all the generals are strong men, most of them are tyrannical and tyrannical. Only General Liu does not plunder wherever he goes."
Judging from his words and deeds, he is not a mediocre person, so he can surrender to him. Miao Meng said: I live and die with you, and I respectfully listen to your opinions. When Guangwu returned to Wan in the south, more than ten people from Gengshi generals led their troops to attack the father city, but Feng Yi could not hold on. When Guangwu became the commander of the Sili school and passed by the father city, Feng Yi and others opened the door and offered cattle and wine to welcome him.
Guangwu ordered Feng Yi to be the principal for the time being, and Miao Meng to be the principal.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
异因荐邑子铫期、叔寿、段建、左隆等，光武皆以为椽史，以至洛阳。
更始数欲遣光武徇河北，诸将皆以为不可。
是时，左丞相曹竟子诩为尚书，父子用事，异劝光武厚结纳之。
及度河北，诩有力焉。
自伯升之败，光武不敢显其悲戚，每独居，辄不御酒肉，枕席有涕泣处。
异独叩头宽譬哀情。
光武止之曰： 卿勿妄言。 异复因间进说曰： 天下同苦王氏，思汉久矣。
至邯郸，遣异与铫期乘传抚循属县，录囚徒，存鳏寡，亡命自诣者除其罪，阴条二千石长吏同心及不附者上之。
及王郎起，光武自蓟东南驰，晨夜草舍，至饶阳无蒌亭。
时天寒烈，众皆饥疲，异上豆粥。
明旦，光武谓诸将曰： 昨得公孙豆粥，饥寒俱解 及至南宫，遇大风雨，光武引车入道傍空舍，异抱薪，邓禹热火，光武对灶燎衣。
异复进麦饭菟肩。
因复度虖沱河至信都，使异别收河间兵。
还，拜偏将军。从破王郎，封应侯。
异为人谦退不伐，行与诸将相逢，辄引车避道。
translation: 
Feng Yi then recommended Yaoqi, Shushou, Duan Jian, Zuo Long and others from Tongyi. Guangwu all made them his governors and followed him to Luoyang.
Gengshi wanted to send Guangwu to capture Hebei several times, but all the generals thought it was impossible.
At this time, Cao Xu, the son of Cao Jing, the prime minister of the left, was the minister, and the father and son were in power. Feng Yi persuaded Guangwu to make a good marriage with them.
Later, when he crossed the Yellow River and headed north, Cao Xu helped him a lot.
Since Guangwu's brother Bosheng was killed by Gengshi, Guangwu did not dare to show his sadness. He often lived alone, did not eat food and wine, and often cried on his pillow and mat.
Feng Yi kowtowed to Guangwu alone to comfort him and comfort him.
Guangwu stopped him and said, "Don't talk nonsense." Feng Yi therefore took the opportunity again and said to Guangwu: "The whole world suffers from Wang Mang and has been thinking about the Han Dynasty for a long time."
Now Gengshi's generals are rampaging and tyrannizing the civilians, plundering wherever they go, leaving the people disappointed and unable to support anyone. Now the Lord can do his own thing without asking for instructions and perform kindness. When the Jie and Zhou Dynasties were in chaos, we saw the contribution of King Tang and Wu of Shang Dynasty. When people are hungry and thirsty for a long time, they can easily be full. Officials should be dispatched urgently, prisoners should be released after trial, widows should be raised, and those who flee and surrender should be exempted from crime. Secretly, he submitted to Guangwu a list of those who were of the same mind as the two thousand stone chief officials and who were not attached to him.
When Wang Lang got up, Guangwu galloped southeast from Ji County, traveling day and night, and arrived at Wuluoting in Raoyang County.
At this time, the weather was very cold and everyone was hungry and tired, so Feng Yi offered bean porridge.
Early the next morning, Guangwu said to the generals: I got Feng Yidou porridge yesterday, and my hunger and cold were relieved. When they arrived in Nangong County, there was a strong wind and rain. Guangwu drove the car into the empty house beside the road. Feng Yi held the firewood, Deng Yu burned the firewood, and Guangwu turned to the stove to bake his clothes.
Feng Yi entered the wheat rice and dodder shoulder again.
So he crossed the Hutuo River to Xindu and worshiped Feng Yi as a partial general.
Thus he defeated Wang Lang and was granted the title of Marquis Ying.
Feng Yi was a humble man who did not boast about his achievements. When he met generals on the road, he often steered his car out of the way.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
进止皆有表识，军中号为整齐。
每所止舍，诸将并坐论功，异常独屏树下，军中号曰 大树将军 。
及破邯郸，乃更部分诸将，各有配隶。
军士皆言愿属大树将军，光武以此多之。
别击破铁胫于北平，又降匈奴于林闟顿王，因从平河北。
时，更始遣舞阴王李轶、廪丘王田立、大司马朱鲔、白虎公陈侨将兵号三十万，与河南太守武勃共守洛阳。
光武将北徇燕、赵，以魏郡、河内独不逢兵，而城邑宗，仓廪实，乃拜寇恂为河内太守，异为孟津将军，统二郡军河上，与恂合执，以拒朱鲔等。
异乃遗李轶书曰： 愚闻明镜所以照形，往事所以知今。
昔微子去殷而入周，项伯畔楚而归汉。周勃迎代王而黜少帝，霍光尊孝宣而废昌邑。
彼皆畏天知命，睹存亡之符，见废兴之事，故能成功于一时，垂业于万世也。
translation: 
There are flags for advancing and retreating, and the military number is for order.
Every time they were stationed for a break, the generals would sit together to discuss their merits. Feng Yidu would hide under a tree. The army called him General Big Tree.
After Handan was defeated, some of the generals were replaced, each with his own subordinates.
The sergeants all said they would like to belong to General Dashu, and Guangwu valued Feng Yi from then on.
In addition, he defeated the Iron Legs in Beiping, and surrendered the Xiongnu to King Lin Guodun. He followed and pacified Hebei.
At this time, Gengshi sent Wuyin King Li Yi, Linqiu King Tian Li, Grand Sima Zhu Jun, and Baihu Duke Chen Qiao to command 300,000 troops to guard Luoyang together with Wu Bo, the prefect of Henan.
General Guangwu wanted to conquer Yanzhao in the north. Since there were no troops in Weijun and Hanoi, the city was intact, and the warehouses were abundant, he appointed Kou Xun as the governor of Hanoi and Feng Yi as the general Mengjin. He led the troops of the two counties on the edge of the Yellow River to join forces with Kou Xun to resist Zhu Tuna and others.
Feng Yi wrote to Li Yi and said: I heard that a mirror is used to see the shape, and the past can be used to explain the truth of today.
In the past, Weizi left the Yin and Shang Dynasties and entered the Zhou Dynasty, Xiang Bo rebelled against Chu and returned to the Han Dynasty, Zhou Bo welcomed the new king and deposed the young emperor, Huo Guangzun Xiaoxuan deposed Liu He, the king of Changyi.
They are all fearful of God and know their fate, and they have seen the signs of life and death, and the fact of ruin and prosperity, so they can succeed in a moment and make great achievements for eternity!


Chunk 3: 
original: 
苟令长安尚可扶助，延期岁月，疏不间亲，远不逾近，季文岂能居一隅哉？
今长安坏乱，赤眉临郊，王侯构难。大臣乖离，纲纪已绝，四方分崩，异姓并起，是故萧王跋涉霜雪，经营河北。
方今英俟云集，百姓风靡，虽邠歧慕周，不足以喻。
季文诚能觉悟成败，亟定大计，论功古人，转祸为福，在此时矣。
如猛将长驱，严兵围城，虽有悔恨，亦无及已。
初，轶与光武首结谋约，加相亲爱，及更始立，反共陷伯升。
虽知长安已危，欲降又不自安。
乃报异书曰： 轶本与萧王首谋造汉，结死生之约，同荣枯之计。
今轶守洛阳，将军镇孟津，俱据机轴，千载一会，思成断金。
translation: 
If Chang'an can still help, extend the time, be close to each other, and never be far away, how can you, Li Yi, live alone in a corner?
Now Chang'an is in chaos, Red Eyebrow is approaching the outskirts of the city, the princes are causing disasters, the ministers have their own agendas, the laws and regulations of the court have been extinct, the four directions are falling apart, and different surnames have arisen, so Guangwu does not shy away from hardships and runs Hebei.
Nowadays, there are many handsome men, and the people are popular. Although he looks like Qi Guigu Gongfu, it is not enough to describe him.
If you, Li Yi, could realize success or failure, make plans in time, and be like the mischievous Xiang Bo, you could achieve success and turn misfortunes into blessings. This would be the time.
If we wait until the fierce generals march in and the stern soldiers surround the city, even though we regret it, it will be too late.
At first, Li Yi and Guangwu first formed a pact and fell in love with each other. When Gengshi came to the throne, they jointly framed Bo Sheng.
Although he knew that Chang'an was already in danger, he wanted to surrender but felt uneasy.
He wrote back to Feng Yi and said: I originally planned to revitalize the Han Dynasty with Chief Guangwu, and we made a life-and-death agreement to plan success or failure together.
Now I am guarding Luoyang, you are guarding Mengjin, and we are both guarding key towns. This is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity, and we want to become close friends.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
惟深达萧王，愿进愚策，以佐国安人。 轶自通书之后，不复与异争锋，故异因此得北攻天井关，拔上党两城，又南下河南成皋已东十三县，及诸屯集，皆平之，降者十余万。
武勃将万余人攻诸畔者，异引军度河，与勃战于士乡下，大破斩勃，获首五千余级，轶又闭门不救。
异见其信效，具以奏闻。
光武故宣露轶书，令朱鲔知之。
鲔怒，遂使人刺杀轶。
由是城中乖离，多有降者。
鲔乃遣讨难将军苏茂将数万人攻温，鲔自将数万人攻平阴以缀异。
异遣校尉护军将兵，与寇恂合击茂，破之。异因度河击鲔，鲔走；异追至洛阳，环城一匝而归。
移檄上伏，诸将皆入贺，并劝光武即帝位。
光武乃召异诣鄗，问四方动静。
异曰： 三王反畔，更始败亡，天下无主，宗庙之忧，在于大王。
宜从众议，上为社稷，下为百姓。 光武曰： 我昨夜梦乘赤龙上天，觉悟，心中动悸 异因下席再拜贺曰： 此天命发于精神。
translation: 
I only ask Shenda Guangwu, may he accept my strategy to help the country and the people. Li Yi stopped fighting with Feng Yi after he read the book, so Feng Yi was able to attack Tianjingguan in the north, capture the two Dang cities, and then go south to thirteen counties east of Chenggao in Henan. All the settlements were pacified, and more than 100,000 people surrendered.
He fought with Wu Bo in the countryside, defeated and beheaded Wu Bo, and killed more than 5,000 people. Li Yi closed the door and refused to save him.
When Feng Yi saw that Li Yi kept his promise, he reported it to Guangwu.
Guangwu deliberately revealed Li Yi's letter to let Zhu Kun know.
Zhu Tuna was angry and sent someone to assassinate Li Yi.
As a result, the people in the city were scattered, and many people left the city to surrender.
Zhu Tung then sent the rebellious general Su Mao to lead tens of thousands of people to attack Wen. Zhu Tung then led tens of thousands of people to attack Pingyang County to attack Feng Yi in succession.
Feng Yi sent his school lieutenant to lead the army, and joined forces with Kou Xun to attack Su Mao. Feng Yi therefore crossed the Yellow River to attack Zhu Jun, who escaped. Feng Yi pursued him to Luoyang and circled the city before returning.
After the proclamation was handed over and the documents were presented, all the generals came in to congratulate him and advised Guangwu to ascend the throne.
Guangwu summoned Feng Yi back to Gaochangyi to inquire about the news in all directions.
Feng Yi said: Zhang Xun and other three kings rebelled, Gengshi was defeated, and the world was left without a master. The worry of the country lies with the king.
We should listen to the opinions of everyone, for the sake of the country at the top and the people at the bottom. Guangwu said: Last night I dreamed of riding a red dragon to heaven. When I woke up, my heart was beating very hard. Feng Yi then fell to the ground and bowed again to congratulate him and said: "This is the influence of destiny on your spirit. The beating in your heart is the king's cautious personality."


Chunk 5: 
original: 
心中动悸，大王重慎之性也。 异遂与诸将军议上尊号。建武二年春，定封异阳夏侯。引击阳翟贼严终、赵根，破之。
诏异归家上冢，使太中大夫赍牛、酒，令二百里内太守、都尉已下及宗族会焉。
时，赤眉、延岑暴乱三辅，郡县大姓各拥兵众，大司徒邓禹不能定，乃遣异代禹讨之。
车驾送至河南，赐以乘舆七尺具剑。
敕异曰： 三辅遭王莽、更始之乱，重以赤眉、延岑之酷，元元涂炭，无所依诉。
今之征伐，非必略地屠城，要在平定安集之耳。
诸将非不健斗，然好虏掠。
卿本能御吏士，念自修敕，无为郡县所苦。 异顿首受命，引而西，所至皆布威信。弘农群盗称将军者十余辈，皆率众降异。
异与赤眉遇于华阴，相拒六十余日，战数十合，降其将刘始、王宣等五千余人。
三年春，遣使者即拜异为征西大将军。
translation: 
Feng Yi discussed with the generals the issue of honorary titles. In the spring of the second year of Jianwu, Feng Yi was granted the title of Marquis of Yangxia. Feng Yi went to attack Yan Zhong and Zhao Gen, the thieves in Yangzhai, and defeated them.
He ordered Feng Yi to go home and go to the tomb to offer sacrifices. He ordered the Taizhong doctor to bring cattle and wine, and ordered the prefects, captains and other clans within two hundred miles to participate in the ceremony.
At this time, Chimei and Yancen violently disrupted the three auxiliaries, and the prefectures and counties supported their troops. The chief disciple Deng Yu could not calm down, so he sent Feng Yidai Deng Yu to attack.
Guangwu sent it to Henan and gave him a chariot and a seven-foot sword.
He ordered Feng Yi to say: The third auxiliary suffered the rebellion of Wang Mang and Gengshi, as well as the cruel treatment of Chimei and Yancen. The common people were in misery and had no place to rely on to appeal.
The purpose of conquering them now is not to seize land or destroy the city and massacre the soldiers and civilians in the city, but to quell the war and assemble the people.
The generals are not bad at fighting, but they are fond of robbing.
You are able to control the officials. I hope you will understand my will and do not let the counties suffer. Feng Yi kowtowed and accepted the order, leading his troops to the west. He spread his prestige everywhere he went. There were more than ten cases where Hongnong bandits were called generals, and they all led their troops to surrender to Feng Yi.
Feng Yi and Chimei met in Huayin. They resisted each other for more than sixty days and fought for dozens of rounds. Chimei surrendered Liu Shi, Wang Xuan and more than 5,000 people to Feng Yi.
In the spring of the third year of Jianwu, the envoys sent by Guangwu worshiped Feng Yi as the general for the expedition to the west.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
会邓禹率车骑将军邓弘等引归，与异相遇，禹、弘要异共攻赤眉。
异曰： 异与贼相拒且数十日，虽屡获雄将，余众尚多，可稍以恩信倾诱，难卒用兵破也。
上今使诸将屯黾池要其东，而异击其西，一举取之，此万成计也。 禹、弘不从。
弘遂大战移日，赤眉阳败，弃辎重走。
车皆载土，以豆覆其上，兵士饥，争取之。
赤眉引还击弘，弘军溃乱。
异与禹合兵救之，赤眉小却。
异以士卒饥倦，可且休，禹不听，复战，大为所败，死伤者三千余人。
禹得脱归宜阳。异弃马步走上回谿阪，与麾下数人归营。
复坚壁，收其散卒，招集诸营保数万人，与贼约期会战。
使壮士变服与赤眉同，伏于道侧。
旦日，赤眉使万人攻异前部，异裁出兵以救之。
translation: 
It happened that Deng Yu and his cavalry general Deng Hong and others returned with troops and met Feng Yi. Deng Yu and Deng Hong asked Feng Yi to attack Chimei together.
Feng Yi said: I have been at odds with the thieves for dozens of days. Although I have repeatedly captured their heroes, there are still many people left. I can slowly lure them with kindness and trust, but it is difficult to defeat them quickly with troops.
Now the emperor has the generals stationed at Lianchi to block his way back east, while Feng Yi attacks the west and captures it in one fell swoop. This is a surefire plan. Deng Yu and Deng Hong refused.
Deng Hong fought with Chimei for many days, but Chimei pretended to be defeated, abandoned his baggage and fled.
The cart was loaded with soil and covered with beans. The soldiers were hungry and scrambled to get the beans for food.
Chimei led his troops back to attack Deng Hong, but Deng Hong's army collapsed and ran away.
Feng Yi and Deng Yu joined forces to rescue him, and Chimei Shao retreated.
Feng Yi thought that the soldiers were hungry and tired and should rest for a while, but Deng Yu refused to listen and fought again. He was defeated by Chimei, killing more than 3,000 people.
Deng Yu was able to escape and return to Yiyang. Feng Yi abandoned his horse and walked back to Xiguban on foot, and returned to camp with several of his men.
Then hold on to the fortress, take back the scattered soldiers, recruit tens of thousands of soldiers from various camps, and make an appointment with the thieves to fight at a time.
Let the strong men under the tent wear the same clothes as Red Eyebrow and lie in ambush on the side of the road.
Early in the morning, Chimei sent ten thousand people to attack Feng Yi's front. Feng Yi deliberately sent out a small number of troops to rescue him.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
贼见势弱，遂悉众攻异，异乃纵兵大战。
日昃，贼气衰，伏兵卒起，衣服相乱，赤眉不复识别，众遂惊溃。
追击，大破于崤底，降男女八万人。
余众尚十余万，东走宜阳降。
玺书劳异曰： 赤眉破平，士吏劳苦，始虽垂翅回谿，终能奋翼黾池，可谓失之东隅，收之桑榆。
方论功赏，以答大勋。
时，赤眉虽降，众寇犹盛：延岑据蓝田，王歆据下邽，芳丹据新丰，蒋震据霸陵，张邯据长安，公孙守据长陵，杨周据谷口，吕鲔据陈仓，角闳据汧，骆延据盩厔，任良据鄠，汝章据槐里，各称将军，拥兵多者万余，少者数千人，转相攻击。
异且战且行，屯军上林苑中。
translation: 
Seeing that Feng Yi's army was weak, the thieves attacked Feng Yi from all fronts, and Feng Yi launched a battle.
When the sun turned to the west, the vigor of the thieves was weak, and Feng Yi's ambush troops suddenly came out. Their clothes were the same as those of Red Eyebrows. Red Eyebrows could not be recognized, so the thieves were frightened and routed.
Feng Yi pursued and defeated the bandits at the bottom of Guodi. Eighty thousand men and women surrendered to Feng Yi.
There were still more than 100,000 people left, and they walked eastward to Yiyang and surrendered.
Guangwu's seal sent condolences to Feng Yi and said: Chimei was defeated and pacified, and the officials worked hard. Although they were defeated at first and returned to Xiguban, they finally achieved great success in Lianchi. It can be said that the east corner was lost and the mulberry tree was gained.
I am giving you rewards based on your merits to reward you for your great contributions.
Although Chimei had surrendered at this time, many bandits were still in power; Yancen occupied Lantian, Wang Xin occupied Xiaguiquan, Fangdan occupied Xinfeng, Jiang Zhen occupied Baling, Zhang Han occupied Chang'an, Gongsun Shou occupied Changling, and Yang Zhou They occupied the mouth of the valley, Lu Qian occupied Chencang, Jiao Hong occupied Wei, Luo Yan occupied Ji, Ren Liang occupied Huaili, and each of them was called a general. Some had more than 10,000 men, and some had thousands of men. They attacked each other.
Feng Yi marched while fighting and stationed troops in Shanglin Garden.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
延岑既破赤眉，自称武安王，拜置牧守，欲据关中，引张邯、任良共攻异。
异击破之，斩首千余级，诸营保守附岑者皆来降归异。
岑走攻析，异遣复汉将军邓晔、辅汉将军于匡要击岑，大破之，隆其将苏臣等八千余人。
岑遂自武关走南阳。
时，百姓饥饿，人相食，黄金一斤易豆五升。
道路断隔，委输不至，军士委以果实为粮。
诏拜南阳赵匡为右扶风，将兵助异，并送缣谷，军中皆称万岁。
异兵食渐盛，乃稍诛击豪杰不从令者，褒赏降附有功劳者，悉遣其渠帅诣京师，散其众归本业。
威行关中，惟吕鲔、张邯、蒋震遣使降蜀，其余悉平。
明年，公孙述遣将程焉，将数万人就吕鲔出屯陈仓。
异与赵匡迎击，大破之，焉退走汉川。
异追战于箕谷，复破之，还击破吕鲔，营保降者甚众。
其后蜀复数遣将间出，异辄摧挫之。
怀来百姓，申理枉结，出入三岁，上林成都。
异自以久在外，不自安，上书思慕阙廷，愿亲帷幄，帝不许。
后人有章言异专制关中，斩长安令，威权至重，百姓归心，号为 咸阳王 。
帝使以章示异。
异惶惧，上书谢曰： 臣本诸生，遭遇受命之会，充备行伍，过蒙恩私，位大将，爵通侯，受任方面，以立微功，皆自国家谋虑，愚臣无所能及。
translation: 
After Yancen defeated Chimei, he claimed to be the king of Wu'an and set up prefectural and animal governors. He wanted to occupy Hanzhong and led Zhang Han and Ren Liang to jointly attack Feng Yi.
Feng Yi defeated him and beheaded more than a thousand people. Those who were attached to Yancen from all the camps came to surrender to Feng Yi.
Yancen went to attack Xixian County. Feng Yi sent General Deng Ye of Fuhan and General Yu Kuang of Fuhan to attack Yancen. They defeated Yancen. His general Su Chen and more than 8,000 people surrendered to the Han army.
Yancen fled from Wuguan to Nanyang.
At this time, the people were hungry, people were eating each other, and a pound of gold could only be exchanged for five liters of beans.
Roads were cut off and transportation was inaccessible, so the soldiers relied on fruits as food.
He issued an edict and appointed Zhao Kuang of Nanyang as You Fufeng. He led the army to assist Feng Yi and sent silk and millet. Everyone in the army called him Long Live.
As the food for Feng Yi's soldiers gradually increased, he gradually punished and attacked the heroes who disobeyed the orders, and commended and rewarded those who had made meritorious service after surrendering. All the generals were sent to the capital, and all the tribesmen were dispersed back to their hometowns. Might and virtue prevailed in Guanzhong.
Only Lu Tuna, Zhang Han, and Jiang Zhen sent envoys to surrender to Shu, and the rest were all pacified.
The next year, Gongsun Shu sent general Cheng Yan and led tens of thousands of people out of Lutun to station in Chencang.
Feng Yi and Zhao Kuang met the attack and defeated Cheng Yan. Cheng Yan retreated back to Hanchuan.
Feng Yi pursued and fought in Jigu, and again defeated Cheng Yan. He returned to attack and defeated Lu Tuna, and many of the camp guards surrendered.
Later, Shu sent generals to take advantage of the opportunity many times, and Feng Wenbu defeated him.
It only took three years to recruit the people and redress their grievances. Many people came to Shanglin to join him.
Feng Yi himself had been away with his troops for a long time and felt uneasy. He wrote a letter saying that he longed for the imperial court and was willing to have a blind date in the palace, but the emperor would not allow it.
Later, someone wrote a memorial saying that Feng Yi acted arbitrarily in Guanzhong and killed the magistrate of Chang'an County. He had great prestige and power, and the people surrendered to him and called him the King of Xianyang.
The emperor sent someone to show Feng Yi the memorial.
Feng Yi was frightened and wrote a letter to apologize, saying: I was originally a Confucian scholar. I got the opportunity to be appointed during the war and served in the army. I received excessive favors and favors. I was worshiped as a general, made a noble prince, and appointed a special commission to the West in order to achieve small achievements. All of this was based on the interests of the country and did not care about my own selfishness.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
臣伏自思惟：以诏敕战攻，每辄如意；时以私心断决，未尝不有悔。
国家独见之明，久而益远，乃知 性与天道，不可得而闻也 。
当兵革始起，扰攘之时，豪杰竞逐，迷惑千数。臣以遭遇，托身圣明，在倾危混淆之中，尚不敢过差，而况天下平定，上尊下卑，而臣爵位所蒙，巍巍不测乎？
诚冀以谨敕，遂自终始。
见所示臣章，战栗怖惧。
伏念明主知臣愚性，固敢因缘自陈。 诏报曰： 将军之于国家，义为君臣，恩犹父子。
何嫌何疑，而有惧意？
六年春，异朝京师。
引见，帝谓公卿曰： 是我起兵时主簿也。
为吾披荆棘，定关中。 既罢，使中黄门赐以珍宝、衣服、钱、帛。
translation: 
I fell down and thought to myself: I often get the desired results with edicts and orders; sometimes I make decisions based on selfish motives, but I still regret it.
The emperor's unique wisdom has become more far-reaching over time, and he knows that nature and the way of heaven cannot be heard or heard.
When the military revolution began and there was chaos, heroes competed in groups, and many people were confused. In the encounter, I was able to take care of you. In the dangerous and chaotic situation before, I didn't dare to make any mistakes. What's more, now that the world is peaceful, superiors are superior and inferiors are inferior, and I am favored by the prince, can I still do unpredictable things?
I sincerely hope to be cautious and diligent in order to be consistent.
After reading the memorial that the Holy Father forwarded to me, I was filled with fear and trembling.
I want to know that the Lord knows my stupidity, so I dare to express my feelings. Guangwu replied with an edict: To the country, a general is as righteous as a ruler and his ministers, and as kind as a father and son.
Why are you afraid because of any suspicion?
In the spring of the sixth year of Jianwu, Feng Yi went to Beijing to pay homage to the emperor.
The emperor introduced him and said to the ministers: "He was the chief secretary when I started the army."
Overcome thorns and thorns for me and conquer Guanzhong. After the court was over, he was sent to Zhonghuangmen to give him treasures, clothes, money and silk.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
诏曰： 仓卒无蒌亭豆粥，虖沱河麦饭，厚意久不报。 异稽首谢曰： 臣闻管仲谓桓公曰： 愿君无忘射钩，臣无忘槛车。
齐国赖之。
臣今亦愿国家无忘河北之难，小臣不敢忘巾车之恩。 后数引宴见，定议图蜀，留十余日，令异妻子随异还西。
夏，遣诸将上陇，为隗嚣所败，乃诏异军栒邑。
未及至，隗嚣乘胜使其将王元、行巡将二万余人下陇，因分遣巡取栒邑。
异即驰兵，欲先据之。
诸将皆曰： 虏兵盛而新乘胜，不可与争，宜止军便地，徐思方略。 异曰： 虏兵临境，忸忕小利，遂欲深入。
若得栒邑，三辅动摇，是吾忧也。
夫 攻者不足，守者有余 。
translation: 
The edict said: When I was in a hurry and trapped in Zheng, there was no bean porridge sent to me by Luoting, and wheat rice sent to me by Hutuo River. I have not repaid my affection for a long time. Feng Yi kowtowed and said in thanks, "I heard that Guan Zhong once said to Qi Huan Gong: I hope the king will not forget about shooting a sentence, and I will not forget about driving a chariot."
Qi relied on this to become strong.
I also hope that the emperor will not forget the disaster in Hebei, and I will not forget your kindness in pardoning me. Later, he was given several banquets to discuss the issue of attacking Gongsun Shu. After staying for more than ten days, Feng Yi's wife, family and children were ordered to follow Feng Yi back to the west.
In the summer, he sent generals to Long, but was defeated by Kai Xiao. Guangwu ordered Feng Yi to march to the city.
Before they arrived, Kaixiao took advantage of the victory and sent his generals Wang Yuan and Xingxun to lead more than 20,000 people to Long, so he divided them into patrols and captured the city.
Feng Yi immediately mobilized his troops and prepared to occupy the city first.
All the generals said: "Kuihuo has a strong army and is coming to seize victory. Do not fight with him." The army should be stopped at a convenient place and slowly think about the strategy. Feng Yi said: When Wei Xiao's troops came to the border, they were accustomed to fighting for small profits, so they wanted to take advantage of the situation and go deeper.
If we capture the city, it will shake the three assistants, which is my worry.
The Art of War says that if there are not enough attackers, there will be more than enough defenders.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
今先据城，以逸待劳，非所以争也。 潜往闭城，偃旗鼓。行巡不足，驰赴之。
异乘其不意。卒击鼓建旗而出。巡军惊乱奔走，追击数十里，大破之。
祭遵亦破王元于汧。
于是北地诸豪长耿定等，悉畔隗嚣降。
异上书言状，不敢自伐。
诸将或欲分其功，帝患之。
乃下玺书曰： 制诏大司马，虎牙、建威、汉忠、捕虏、武威将军：虏兵猥下，三辅惊恐。
栒邑危亡，在于旦夕。
北地营保，按兵观望。
今偏城获全，虏兵挫折，使耿定之属，复念君臣之义。
征西功若丘山，犹自以为不足。
孟之反奔而殿，亦何异哉？
translation: 
Now, occupying the city first and waiting for work is not a matter of competing with him. So he entered the city secretly, closed the city gates, silenced his flags and drums, and went on patrol without knowing it, and rushed to the city.
Feng Yi took advantage of his surprise and suddenly beat the drums and flags to rush out. The patrol troops panicked and ran around in confusion. Feng Yi pursued them for dozens of miles and defeated the patrol troops.
Ji Zun is also attacking Wang Yuan.
So all the powerful leaders in the north, Geng Ding and others, rebelled against Kuai Xiao and surrendered to the Han.
Feng Yi wrote a letter explaining the situation and did not dare to be proud of his own merits.
Some generals want to share their achievements. Guangwu felt worried.
Then he issued a seal saying: The imperial edict was issued to the commander-in-chief, generals Huya, Jianwei, Hanzhong, Qilu, and Wuwei: The prisoners led their troops to march down to Long, and the three assistants were frightened.
The city is in danger and is in danger.
All the camps and security guards in the north stood still and watched.
Now that the outlying city has been preserved and the captive troops have suffered a setback, Geng Ding and his followers have regained their righteousness as kings and ministers.
The general's achievements in conquering the West are like mountains and hills, but he still thinks that he is not reserved enough.
What is the difference between Meng Zhi who rebelled against the Queen and rejected the Qi troops without claiming his merit?


Chunk 12: 
original: 
今遣太中大夫赐征西吏士死伤者医药、棺敛，大司马已下亲吊死问疾，以崇谦让。 于是使异进军义渠，并领北地太守事。
青山胡率万余人降异。
异又击卢芳将贾览、匈奴薁鞬日逐王，破之。
上郡、安定皆降，异复领安定太守事。
九年春，祭遵卒，诏异守征虏将军，并将其营。
及隗嚣死，其将王元、周宗等复立嚣子纯，犹总兵据冀，公孙述遣将赵匡等救之，帝复令异行天水太守事。
攻匡等且一年，皆斩之。
诸将共攻冀，不能拔，欲且还休兵，异固持不动，常为众军锋。
明年夏，与诸将攻落门，未拔，病发，薨于军，谥曰节侯。
长子彰嗣。
明年，帝思异功，复封彰弟为析乡侯。
十三年，更封彰东缗侯，食三县。
永平中，徙封平乡侯。
彰卒，子普嗣，有罪，国除。
永初六年，安帝下诏曰： 夫仁不遗亲，义不忘劳，兴灭继绝，善善及子孙，古之典也。
昔我光武受命中兴，恢弘圣绪，横被四表，昭假上下，光耀万世，祉祚流衍，垂于罔极。
予末小子，夙夜永思，追惟勋烈，披图案籍，建武元功二十八将，佐命虎臣，谶记有征。
盖萧、曹绍封，传继于今；况此未远，而或至乏祀，朕其愍之。
其条二十八将无嗣绝世，若犯罪夺国，其子孙应当统后者，分别署状上。
translation: 
Now the Taizhong Taifu was sent to reward the dead and wounded soldiers who conquered the west with medicine and coffins. The Grand Sima and his subordinates personally hanged them and asked about their injuries to show their humility. So Feng Yi was ordered to march into Yiqu County and take over the affairs of the Northern Governor.
Qingshan Hu led more than 10,000 people to surrender to Feng Yi.
Feng Yi also attacked Lu Fang's general Jia Lan and the Xiongnu Ge Jian Ri Zhu Wang, and defeated them both.
Shangjun and Anding both surrendered, and Feng Yi took over the affairs of Anding as the prefect.
In the spring of the ninth year of Jianwu, Ji Zun died, and Feng Yi was ordered to take charge of the general Ji Zun on his behalf and command the original Ji Zun troops.
After Wei Xiao died, Wei generals Wang Yuan, Zhou Zong and others appointed Kai Xiao's son Kai Chun and continued to occupy Ji County. Gongsun Shu sent general Zhao Kuang and others to rescue Wei Chun, and Guangwu ordered Feng Yi to concurrently serve as the prefect of Tianshui.
He attacked Zhao Kuang and others for nearly a year and killed them all.
The generals jointly attacked Ji County but could not capture it, so they prepared to temporarily return to rest and regroup. Feng Yi insisted on standing firm and was often the vanguard of the army.
In the summer of the next year, he and the generals attacked the gate but failed to capture it. Feng Yi fell ill and died in the army. He was given the posthumous title of Jiehou.
The eldest son Akatsuki.
Next year, the emperor thought of his extraordinary achievements and granted Zhang's younger brother the title of Marquis of Xixiang.
In the 13th year, he was granted the title of Minhou of Zhangdong and was granted the title of "Emperor of Three Counties".
In Yongpingzhong, he moved to Pingxiang and was granted the title of Marquis.
If the emperor dies, his son will have an heir. If he is guilty, the country will be destroyed.
In the sixth year of the Yongchu period, Emperor An issued an edict saying: "A husband's benevolence never leaves his relatives, his righteousness never forgets his hard work, his rise and fall continue, his good deeds are passed down to his descendants, this is an ancient standard."
In the past, I, Guangwu, was reborn by destiny, and my holy thread was magnificent. It spread across all four sides, showing up and down. It shined brightly for all ages, and its blessings and disapproval spread, hanging down to the extreme.
At the end of my life, I will think long and hard, pursue my heroes and martyrs, write pictures and books, build twenty-eight generals of Yuan Dynasty, assist tigers and ministers, and predict the war.
Gai Xiao and Cao Shaofeng were passed down to this day. In addition, this is not far away, and there may be no sacrifices. I am sorry for it.
Article 28: If a general has no heirs, and if he commits a crime and seizes the country, his descendants should unite with the latter and sign the certificate respectively.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
将及景风，章叙旧德，显兹遗功焉。 于是绍封普子晨为平乡侯。
明年，二十八将绝国者，皆绍封焉。
岑彭字君然，南阳棘阳人也。
王莽时，守本县长。
汉兵起，攻拔棘阳，彭将家属奔前队大夫甄阜。
阜怒彭不能固守，拘彭母妻，令效功自衬。
彭将宾客战斗甚力。
及甄阜死，彭被创，亡归宛，与前队贰严说共城守。
汉兵攻之数月，城中粮尽，人相食，彭乃与说举城降。
诸将欲诛之，大司徒伯升曰： 彭，郡之大吏，执心坚守，是其节也。
今举大事，当表义士，不如封之，以劝其后。 更始乃封彭为归德侯，令属伯升。
及伯升遇害，彭复为大司马朱鲔校尉，从鲔击王莽杨州牧李圣，杀之，定淮阳城。
鲔荐彭为淮阳都尉。
translation: 
When approaching the scenery and scenery, the chapter recounts the old virtues and shows the achievements left behind. So Shao granted Pu Zichen the title of Marquis of Pingxiang.
Next year, the twenty-eight generals who will be defeated in the country will all be granted the title of Yan.
Cen Peng, courtesy name Junran, was from Jiyang County, Nanyang County.
During the reign of Wang Mang, he acted as the magistrate of Jiyang County.
After the rise of Han soldiers, they captured Jiyang County. Cen Peng and his family rushed to Zhenfu, the doctor of the front army.
Zhenfu was angry that Cen Peng could not stick to Jiyang. He detained Cen Peng's mother and wife and ordered Cen Peng to redeem himself by performing meritorious service.
Cen Peng's generals and guests fought hard.
Later, Zhenfu died and Cen Peng was injured. He fled back to Wan County and defended the city together with Yan Shuo, Zhenfu's deputy general on the front line.
After the Han soldiers had been attacking for several months, the food in the city was exhausted and people were eating each other. Cen Peng then told Yan that the whole city should be surrendered to the Han.
The generals were about to kill Cen Peng, but Chief Tu Bosheng said: "Cen Peng is a high official in the county, and it is his integrity to stand firm."
Now that we are raising troops to prosper the Han Dynasty, we should commend the righteous soldiers. It is better to confer an official title on him. This can also set an example for future generals who surrender. At the beginning of the war, Cen Peng was granted the title of Guidehou and was led by Bo Sheng.
Later, Bo Sheng was killed, and Cen Peng became the captain of the Grand Sima Zhu Kun. He followed Zhu Kun to attack Wang Mang Yangzhou Mu Li Sheng, killed Li Sheng, and pacified Huaiyang City.
Zhu Jun recommended Cen Peng as the captain of Huaiyang.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
更始遣立威王张卬与将军徭伟镇淮阳。
伟反，击走卬。
彭引兵攻伟，破之。
迁颍川太守。
会舂陵刘茂起兵，略下颍川，彭不得之官，乃与麾下数百人从河内太守邑人韩歆。
会光武徇河内，歆议欲城守，彭止不听。
既而光武至怀，歆迫急迎降。
光武知其谋，大怒，收歆置鼓下，将斩之。
召见彭，彭因进说曰： 今赤眉入关，更始危殆，权臣放纵，矫称诏制，道路阻塞，四方蜂起，群雄竞逐，百姓无所归命。
窃闻大王平河北，开王业，此诚皇天祐汉，士人之福也。
彭幸蒙司徒公所见全济，未有报德，旋被祸难，永恨于心。
今复遭遇，愿出身自效。 光武深接纳之。
彭因言韩歆南阳大人，可以为用。
乃贳歆，以为邓禹军师。
translation: 
Gengshi sent Liwei King Zhang Xuan and General Juwei to control Huaiyang.
Wei Wei rebelled and drove Zhang Xian away.
Cen Peng led his troops to attack Ju Wei and defeated him.
He was promoted to the prefect of Yingchuan.
At the same time, Liu Mao of Chongling raised troops and captured Yingchuan. Cen Peng did not get an official position, so he and hundreds of his men followed Han Xin, a fellow governor of Hanoi.
Just when Guangwu was attacking Hanoi, Han Xin wanted to defend the city, but Cen Peng dissuaded him and refused to listen.
Later, when Guangwu arrived in Huai County, Han Xin surrendered in an urgent and helpless situation.
Guangwu knew about his plan to defend the city and was furious. He put Han Xin under the banner and prepared to kill him.
Summoning Cen Peng, Cen Peng therefore went in and said: Now that Chimei has entered Guanzhong, Gengshi is in danger. The powerful officials are indulgent and falsely preach the imperial edict. The roads are blocked, swarms are coming from all directions, and the heroes are vying for the throne. The people have nowhere to go.
I heard that the king pacified Hebei and established the empire. This is really the blessing of the emperor and the heaven on the Han Dynasty and the happiness of the people!
Fortunately, Cen Peng was rescued by Situ Gongbo, but he failed to repay his kindness. Later, he suffered disaster, which will always be regretted in his heart.
Now that I have met the king again, I am willing to sacrifice my life to serve him. Guangwu is willing to accept Cen Peng.
Peng therefore said that Han Xin was a powerful person in Nanyang and could be used by the king.
Guangwu pardoned Han Xin and made him serve as a military advisor to Deng Yu.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
更始大将军吕植将兵屯淇园，彭说降之，于是拜彭为刺奸大将军，使督察众营，授以常所持节，从平河北。
光武即位，拜彭廷尉，归德侯如故，行大将军事。
与大司马吴汉，大司空王梁，建义大将军朱祐，右将军万脩，执金吾贾复，骁骑将军刘植，杨化将军坚镡，积射将军侯进，偏将军冯异、祭遵、王霸等，围洛阳数月。
朱鲔等坚守不肯下。
帝以彭尝为鲔校尉，令往说之。
鲔在城上，彭在城下，相劳苦欢语如平生。
彭因曰： 彭往者得执鞭侍从，蒙荐举拔擢，常思有以报恩。
今赤眉已得长安，更始为三王所反，皇帝受命，平定燕、赵，尽有幽、冀之地，百姓归心，贤俊云集，亲率大兵，来攻洛阳。
天下之事，逝其去矣。
translation: 
Gengshi general Lu Zhi led his army to station in Qiyuan. Cen Peng persuaded him to surrender to Guangwu, so he appointed Cen Peng as the assassin general and sent him to supervise each camp. He was awarded the talisman he usually held and followed to pacify Hebei.
When Guangwu ascended the throne, he appointed Cen Peng as a court lieutenant, and Guidehou performed the duties of a general as in the past.
Together with the great commander Wu Han, the great commander Wang Liang, the great general Zhu Jianyi, the right general Wan, the Jin Wu Jia Fu, the heroic cavalry general Liu Zhi, the Yanghua general Jian Dan, the plotting general Hou Jin, the partial generals Feng Yi, Ji Zun, Wang Ba, etc., surrounded Luoyang for several months.
Zhu Tuna and others refused to surrender.
Guangwu Yi Cen Peng once served as Zhu Kun's captain and asked him to persuade Zhu Kun.
Zhu Tuna was on top of the city, and Cen Peng was at the bottom of the city. They expressed condolences to each other and talked happily as in the past.
Cen Peng then said: I, Cen Peng, was able to follow the Great Sima in the past, and was often recommended by the Great Sima as the Captain. I always wanted to repay my kindness.
Now that Chimei has captured Chang'an, Gengshi was rebelled against by Zhang Xun and other three kings and was defeated. Guangwu was ordered to pacify Yan and Zhao. The land of You and Ji was all owned by him. The people returned to their hearts, and virtuous and handsome men gathered together to personally lead the army to attack Luoyang.
The major events in the world are in the past.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
公虽婴城固守，将何待乎？ 鲔曰： 大司徒被害时，鲔与其谋，又谏更始无遣萧王北伐，诚自知罪深。 彭还，具言于帝。
帝曰： 夫建大事者，不忌小怨。
鲔今若降，官爵可保，况诛罚乎？
河水在此，吾不食言。 彭复往告鲔，鲔从城上下索曰： 必信，可乘此上。 彭趣索欲上。
鲔见其诚，即许降。
后五日，鲔将轻骑诣彭。
顾敕诸部将曰： 坚守待我。
我若不还，诸君径将大兵上轘辕，归郾王。 乃面缚，与彭俱诣河阳。
帝即解其缚，召见之，复令彭夜送鲔归城。
明旦，悉其众出降，拜鲔为平狄将军，封扶沟侯。
鲔，淮阳人，后为少府，传封累代。
建武二年，使彭击荆州，下犨、叶等十余城。
是时，南方尤乱。
translation: 
Although the Duke has surrounded the city and defended it, what else will he be waiting for? Zhu Tuna said: When the great Situ Bosheng was killed, I also participated in the murder and suggested to Gengshi not to send Guangwu to the Northern Expedition. I know that my sin is very serious.
Cen Peng came back and reported the situation to Guangwu. Guangwu said: Those who build great undertakings should not be afraid of small resentments.
If Zhu Tuna surrendered now and his official title could be kept, why would he be killed?
The water of the Yellow River can bear witness here, and I don’t mean to back up my words. Cen Peng went to sue Zhu Kun again, and Zhu Kun lowered a rope from the tower and said, "If you believe it, you can take this rope up." Cen Peng gets close to the rope and prepares to get on.
Seeing his sincerity, Zhu Tuna immediately promised to surrender.
Five days later, Zhu Kun led his lightly-armed cavalry to meet with Cen Peng.
He turned around and ordered the generals to say: Hold on to this city and wait for me.
If I don't come back, you can lead your troops directly to Yuanyuan and return to King Lin. He tied himself up and went to Heyang with Cen Peng.
Guangwu immediately untied him, summoned Zhu Tuna, and then ordered Cen Peng to send Zhu Tuna back to the city.
Early the next morning, he led all his troops out of the city and surrendered. Guangwu worshiped Zhu Jun as General Pingdi and granted him the title of Marquis of Fugou.
Zhu Jun was a native of Huaiyang. He later became a Shaofu official, and his descendants passed down the title for several generations.
In the second year of Jianwu, he sent Cen Peng to attack Jingzhou and captured more than ten cities including Taoxian and Yexian.
The South was particularly troubled at the time.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
南郡人秦丰据黎丘，自称楚黎王，略十有二县；董讠斤起堵乡；许邯起杏；又，更始诸将各拥兵据南阳诸城。
帝遣吴汉伐之，汉军所过多侵暴。
时，破虏将军邓奉谒归新野，怒吴汉掠其乡里，遂反，击破汉军，获其辎重，屯据淯阳，与诸贼合从。
秋，彭破杏，降许邯，迁征南大将军。
复遣朱祐、贾复及建威大将军耿弇，汉忠将军王常，武威将军郭守，越骑将军刘宏，偏将军刘嘉、耿植等，与彭并力讨邓奉。
先击堵乡，而奉将万余人救董。
、奉皆南阳精兵，彭等攻之，连月不克。
三年夏，帝自将南征，至叶，董讠斤别将将数千人遮首，车骑不可得前。
彭奔击，大破之。
帝至堵阳，邓奉夜逃归淯阳，董讠斤降。
彭复与耿弇、贾复及积弩将军傅俊、骑都尉臧宫等从追邓奉于小长安，帝率诸将亲战，大破之。
奉迫急，乃降。
帝怜奉旧功臣，且衅起吴汉，欲全宥之。
彭与耿弇谏曰： 邓奉背恩反逆，暴师经年，致贾复伤痍，朱祐见获。
translation: 
Qin Feng, a native of Nanjun, occupied Liqiu and called himself the King of Chu Li, occupying twelve counties; Dong Tanjin raised troops to block the countryside;
Guangwu sent Wu Han to attack, but Wu Han's army invaded and brutalized many places.
At this time, Polu general Deng Feng asked for leave and returned to Xinye. He was angry that Wu Han had plundered his hometown, so he rebelled, defeated the Han army, captured the Han army's baggage, stationed troops and occupied Xuyuyang, and joined forces with the bandits from all walks of life.
In autumn, Cen Peng defeated Xingju, Xu Han surrendered, and moved Cen Peng to be the general in the southern expedition.
He also dispatched Zhu, Jia Fu, Jianwei General Geng Yan, Hanzhong General Wang Chang, Wuwei General Guo Shou, Yueqi General Liu Hong, and partial generals Liu Jia and Geng Zhi to attack Deng Feng together with Cen Peng.
They attacked Duxiang first, while Deng Feng led more than 10,000 men to rescue Dong Tanjin.
Dong Yanjin and Deng Feng were both Nanyang elite soldiers. Cen Peng and others attacked, but failed to capture it for several months.
In the summer of the third year of Jianwu, Guangwu personally led his army to the south and arrived at Ye County. Dong Tanjin's generals led thousands of people to block the way, and the chariots and cavalry could not advance.
Cen Peng pursued and attacked, defeating the bandits.
Guangwu arrived at Duyang, Deng Fengcheng fled back to Yuyang at night, and Dong Jinjin surrendered.
Cen Peng then joined Geng Yan, Jia Fu, General Jinu Fu Jun, Cavalry Commander Zang Gong and others to track and pursue Deng Feng in Xiao Chang'an. Guangwu led the generals to fight in person and defeated Deng Fengjun.
Deng Feng was desperate and surrendered.
Guangwu felt pity that Deng Feng was an old hero and wanted to pardon him because his rebellion was caused by Wu Han officers and soldiers violating the people.
Cen Peng and Geng Yan both advised: Deng Feng betrayed his kindness and rebelled, leaving the army exposed for many years, causing Jia Fu to be injured and Zhu to be captured.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
陛下既至，不知悔善，而亲在行陈，兵败乃降。
若不诛奉，无以惩恶。 于是斩之。
奉者，西华侯邓晨之兄子也。
车驾引还，令彭率傅俊、臧宫、刘宏等三万余人南击秦丰，拔黄邮，丰与其大将蔡宏拒彭等于邓，数月不得进。
帝怪以让彭，彭惧，于是夜勒兵马，申令军中，使明旦西击山都。
乃缓所获虏，令得逃亡，归以告丰，丰即采其军西邀彭。
彭乃潜兵度沔水，击其将张杨于阿头山，大破之。
从川谷间伐木开道，直袭黎丘，击破诸屯兵。
丰闻大惊，驰归救之。
彭与诸将依东山为营，丰与蔡宏夜攻鼓，彭豫为之备，出兵逆击之，丰败走，追斩蔡宏。
更封彭为舞阴侯。
秦丰相赵京举宜城降，拜为成汉将军，与彭共围丰于黎丘。
translation: 
Even though His Majesty was here, he still did not know how to repent and do good, but personally commanded on the battlefield. He was forced to surrender until the army was defeated.
If Deng Feng is not killed, there will be no way to punish the evildoers. Guangwu then killed Deng Feng.
Deng Feng is the son of Deng Chen's brother, Marquis of Xihua.
When Guangwu returned to the capital, he ordered Cen Peng to lead Fu Jun, Zang Gong, Liu Hong and more than 30,000 men to attack Qin Feng southward and capture Huang Youju. Qin Feng and his general Kui Hong resisted Cen Peng and Deng, and were unable to advance for several months.
Guangwu felt strange and ordered Cen Peng to do it. Cen Peng was afraid, so he led his troops at night and ordered the army to attack Shandu County in the west early the next morning.
He relaxed his control over the prisoners and allowed them to flee. When he went back and told Qin Feng, Qin Feng invited all his troops to the west to attack Cen Peng.
However, Cen Peng secretly led his troops across the Mianshui River and attacked Qin Feng's general Zhang Yang on Atou Mountain, severely defeating Zhang Yang.
He also cut down trees from the valley to clear a road, and attacked Liqiu directly, defeating all the troops stationed there.
Qin Feng was shocked when he heard the news and returned the army to rescue.
Cen Peng and his generals relied on Dongshan as their camp. Qin Feng and Cai Hong attacked Cen Peng at night. Cen Peng took precautions in advance and sent troops to attack. Qin Feng was defeated and Cai Hong was pursued and killed.
He also named Cen Peng the Marquis of Wuyin.
Qin Feng's prime minister Zhao Jing summoned Yicheng and surrendered to Cen Peng. He worshiped Zhao Jing as the general of the Han Dynasty and together with Cen Peng besieged Qin Feng in Liqiu.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
时田戎拥众夷陵，闻秦丰被围，惧大兵方至，欲降。
而妻兄辛臣谏戎曰： 今四方豪杰各据郡国，洛阳地如掌耳，不如按甲以观其变。 戎曰： 以秦王之强，犹为征南所围，岂况吾邪？
降计决矣。 四年春，戎乃留辛臣守夷陵，自将兵沿江溯沔止黎丘，刻期日当降，而辛臣于后盗戎珍宝，从间道先降于彭，而以书招戎。
戎疑必卖己，遂不敢降，百反与秦丰合，彭出兵攻戎，数月，大破之，其大将伍公诣彭降，戎亡归夷陵。
帝幸黎丘劳军，封彭吏士有功者百余人。
彭攻秦丰三岁，斩首九万余级，丰余兵裁千人，又城中食且尽。
帝以丰转弱，令朱祐代彭守之，使彭与傅俊南击田戎，大破之，遂拔夷陵，追至秭归。
戎与数十骑亡入蜀，尽获其妻子士众数万人。
彭以将伐蜀汉，而夹川谷少，水险难漕运，留威虏将军冯骏军江州，都尉田鸿军夷陵，领军李玄军夷道，自引兵还屯津乡，当荆州要会，喻告诸蛮夷，降者奏封其君长。
初，彭与交阯牧邓让厚善，与让书陈国家威德，又遣偏将军屈充移檄江南，班行诏命。
于是让与江夏太守侯登、武陵太守王堂、长沙相韩福、桂阳太守张隆、零陵太守田翕、苍梧太守杜穆、交耻太守锡光等，相率遣使贡献，悉封为列侯。
或遣子将兵助彭征伐。
translation: 
At this time, Tian Rong gathered troops in Yiling. Hearing that Qin Feng was besieged, he was afraid that the soldiers would arrive and prepared to surrender.
Xin Chen, his wife's brother, advised Tian Rong: "Now that the heroes from all over the country are occupying the prefectures and the land of Luoyang is like the palm of your hand, it is better to stand still and observe its changes." Tian Rong said: "Qin Feng, the king of Chu Li, is so powerful that he is still besieged by the army that conquers the south. What about me?"
I have decided to surrender. In the spring of the fourth year of Jianwu, Tian Rong left Xin Chen to guard Yiling. He led his army up the Yangtze River to Mian River and ended at Liqiu, and planned the date of surrender. However, Xin Chen stole Tian Rong's treasures and surrendered to Cen Peng first from the trail. Instead, he summoned Tian Rong to surrender with a letter.
Tian Rong suspected that Xin Chen must have betrayed him, so he did not dare to surrender and instead joined Qin Feng. Cen Peng sent troops to attack Tian Rong. Within a few months, the Rong army was defeated. His general Wu Gong surrendered to Cen Peng, and Tian Rong fled back to Yiling.
Guangwu went to Liqiu to work for the army, and granted more than a hundred meritorious services among Cen and Peng's officials.
Cen Peng attacked Qin Feng for three years and beheaded more than 90,000 people. Qin Feng's remaining soldiers were only a thousand, and the food in the city was almost exhausted.
Guangwu thought that Qin Feng had become weak, so he ordered Zhu Dai Cen Peng to surround him, and sent Cen Peng and Fu Jun to attack Tian Rong southward, defeating the Rong army, and then conquered Yiling and pursued Zigui.
Tian Rong and dozens of his cavalry fled to Shu, and all Tian Rong's wives, children, and ladies were captured, numbering tens of thousands.
Cen Peng was about to conquer the Shu Han, but there were few valleys on both sides of the Sichuan River, dangerous water and water transportation was very difficult, so he left Weilu general Feng Jun to station troops in Jiangzhou County, captain Tian Hong to station troops in Yiling, and leader Li Xuan to station troops in Yi Dao.
At first, Cen Peng had a good relationship with Deng Rang, the pastor of Jiaozhi, so he wrote to Deng Rang to state the might and virtue of his military power. He also sent partial general Qu Chong to Jiangnan to issue an edict.
So Deng Rang, together with Hou Deng, the prefect of Jiangxia, Wang Tang, the prefect of Wuling, Han Fu, the prime minister of Changsha, Zhang Long, the prefect of Guiyang, Tian Xi, the prefect of Lingling, Du Mu, the prefect of Cangwu, Xiguang, the prefect of Jiaozhi, etc., successively sent envoys to contribute, and they were all granted the title of marquis.
Some even sent their sons to lead troops to assist Cen Peng in his expedition.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
于是江南之珍始流通焉。
六年冬，征彭诣京师，数召宴见，厚加赏赐。
复南还津乡，有诏过家上冢，大长称以朔望问太夫人起居。
八年，彭引兵从车驾破天水，与吴汉围隗嚣于西域。
时，公孙述将李育将兵救嚣，守上邽，帝留盖延、联弇围之，而车驾东归。
敕彭书曰： 两城若下，便可将兵南击蜀虏。
人若不知足，既平陇，复望蜀。
每一发兵，头须为白。 彭遂壅谷水灌西城，城未没丈余，嚣将行巡、周宗将蜀救兵到，嚣得出还冀。
汉军食尽，烧辎重，引兵下陇，延、弇亦相随而退。
嚣出兵尾击诸营，彭殿为后拒，故诸将能全师东归。
彭还津乡。
translation: 
As a result, various precious items from Jiangnan began to circulate.
In the winter of the sixth year of Jianwu, Cen Peng was summoned to the capital. He was summoned many times to give banquets and generous rewards.
Returning south to Jinxiang County, he was ordered to go to the tomb of his ancestors when he passed his home, and to pay his respects to his wife on the first and fifteenth day of the Lunar New Year.
In the eighth year of Jianwu's reign, Cen Peng led his troops from Guangwu to break through the Tianshui River, and surrounded Wei and Wu Han in Xicheng.
At that time, Gongsun Shu's general Li Yu led his troops to rescue Kuai Xiao and guard Shanggui County. Guangwu left Gaiyan and Geng Yan to surround Shanggui County, and Guangwu returned eastward.
I sent a letter to Cen Peng to say: If Xicheng and Shanggui are captured, we can lead our troops south to attack the Shu captives.
People are suffering and not satisfied. After pacifying Long, they also look at Shu.
Every time I send troops, I am so anxious that my hair turns white. Cen Peng blocked the valley water and irrigated the west city. The water was still more than ten feet away from the city wall. General Wei Xiao led a patrol and Zhou Zong led the Shu reinforcements to arrive. Wei Xiao was able to leave the city and return to Jicheng.
The Han army ran out of food, burned its baggage, and retreated. Gai Yan and Geng Yan also retreated one after another.
Wei Xiao sent out troops to attack the camps, and the rear of Cen Peng Palace provided cover, so the generals were able to retreat safely and the entire division returned eastward.
Cen Peng returned to Jinxiang County.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
九年，公孙述遣其将任满、田戎、程汎，将数万人乘枋下江关，击破冯骏及田鸿、李玄等。
遂拔夷道、夷陵，据荆门、虎牙。
横江水起浮桥、斗楼，立欑柱绝水道，结营山上，以拒汉兵。
彭数攻之，不利，于是装直进楼船、冒突露桡数千艘。
十一年春，彭与吴汉及诛虏将军刘隆、辅威将军臧宫、骁骑将军刘歆，发南阳、武陵、南郡兵，又发桂阳、零陵、长沙委输棹卒，凡六万余人，骑五千匹，皆会荆门。
吴汉以三郡棹卒多费粮谷，欲罢之。
彭以蜀兵盛，不可遣，上书言状。
帝报彭曰： 大司马习用步骑，不晓水战，荆门之事，一由征南公为重而已。 彭乃令军中募攻浮桥，先登者上赏。
于是偏将军鲁奇应募而前。时天风狂急，奇船逆流而上，直冲浮桥，而欑柱钩不得去，奇等乘势殊死战，因飞炬焚之，风怒火盛，桥楼崩烧。
彭复悉军顺风并进，所向无前。
蜀兵大乱，溺死者数千人。
translation: 
In the ninth year of Jianwu, Gongsun Shu sent generals Ren Man, Tian Rong, and Cheng Xufan to lead tens of thousands of people down to Jiangguan on rafts made of bamboo and wood, and defeated Feng Jun, Tian Hong, Li Xuan, and others.
So he captured Yidao and Yiling, and occupied Jingzhou and Huya.
They built pontoon bridges and battle towers on the Yangtze River, erected many wooden pillars to cut off the waterway, and set up camps on the mountains to resist the Han soldiers.
Cen Peng's several attacks were unsuccessful, so he built thousands of warships with buildings that could go straight in. The people were in the ships, and only the hulls were exposed.
In the spring of the 11th year of Jianwu, Cen Peng, Wu Han, General Liu Long, General Zang Gong, and Liu Xin mobilized soldiers and horses from Nanyang, Wuling, and Nanjun, and sailors from Guiyang, Lingling, and Changsha for transportation tasks. A total of more than 60,000 people and 5,000 horses met at Jingmen.
Wu Han thought that the sailors in the three counties were spending too much food and did not use it.
Cen Peng thought that the Shu army was strong and the sailors could not be dismissed, so he wrote to Guangwu to explain the situation.
Guangwu replied to Cen Peng and said: The great Sima Wu Han was accustomed to fighting on foot and cavalry. He did not know about water battles and the battle of Jingmen. Everything was presided over by Zhengnan Gong Cen Peng. Cen Peng ordered the army to recruit warriors to attack the pontoon bridge, and those who could board it first would be rewarded.
So the general Lu Qi enlisted and attacked forward. At that time, the wind was blowing fiercely. Lu Qi's warship went upstream and rushed straight to the pontoon bridge. However, it was hooked by a wooden pillar and could not move forward. Lu Qi took advantage of the situation and fought to the death, using flying torches to burn it. The wind was so angry that the pontoon bridge and the tower were burned down.
Cen Peng then led the entire army to advance with the wind and was invincible.
The Shu army was in chaos, and thousands of people were drowned.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
斩任满，生获程汎，而田戎亡保江州。
彭上刘隆为南郡太守，自率臧宫、刘歆长驱入江关，令军中无得虏掠。
所以，百姓皆奉牛、酒迎劳。
彭见诸耆老，为言大汉哀愍巴蜀久见虏役，故兴师远伐，以讨有罪，为人除害。
让不受其牛、酒。
百姓皆大喜悦，争开门降。
诏彭守益州牧，所下郡，辄行太守事。
彭到江州，以田戎食多，难卒拔，留冯骏守之，自引兵乘利直指垫江，攻破平曲，收其米数十万石。
公孙述使其将延岑、吕鲔、王元及其弟恢悉兵拒广汉及资中，又遣将侯丹率二万余人拒黄石。
彭乃多张疑兵，使护军杨翕与臧宫拒延岑等，自分兵浮江下还江州，溯都江而上，袭击侯丹，大破之。
因晨夜倍道兼行二千余里，径拔武阳。
translation: 
After his term of office was over, Cheng Xufan was captured alive, and Tian Rong fled to Jiangzhou to protect himself.
Cen Peng reported that Liu Long was the governor of Nanjun. He led Zang Gong and Liu Xin to march straight into Jiangguan and ordered the army not to plunder.
Wherever he passed, people offered cattle and wine to express their welcome and comfort.
When Cen Peng saw the elders, he said that the Han felt sorry for Bashu who had been enslaved by thieves for a long time, so he launched an expedition to attack the guilty and eliminate harm for the people.
He refuses to accept the cattle and wine offered by the people.
The people were very happy and rushed to open the door and surrender.
The edict ordered Cen Peng to temporarily act as the pastor of Yizhou, and Cen Peng would be appointed as the prefect of the following counties.
When Cen Peng arrived in Jiangzhou, he found that Tian Rong had enough food and could not capture it immediately, so he left Feng Jun to guard Jiangzhou while he led his troops to take advantage of the victory and directed his troops towards Dianjiang County, conquering Pingqu and harvesting hundreds of thousands of stones.
Gongsun Shu sent his generals Yancen, Lu Qian, Wang Yuan and his younger brother Gongsun Hui to lead all the troops to resist the defense of Guanghan and Zizhong counties. He also sent general Hou Dan to lead more than 20,000 people to resist the defense of Huangshi.
Cen Peng then set up more suspicious troops and asked the guards Yang Xi and Zang Gong to resist Yan Cen and others. However, he divided his troops and floated down the river back to Jiangzhou. He went up the Du River to attack Hou Dan and defeated Dan's army.
Because they traveled more than two thousand miles day and night, they directly captured Wuyang.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
使精骑驰广都，去成都数十里，势若风雨，所至皆奔散。
初，述闻汉兵在平曲，故遣大兵逆之。
及彭至武阳，绕出延岑军后，蜀地震骇。
述大惊，以杖击地曰： 是何神也！
彭所营地名彭亡，闻而恶之，欲徙，会日暮，蜀刺客诈为亡奴降，夜刺杀彭。
彭首破荆门，长驱武阳，持军整齐，秋豪无犯。
邛穀王任贵闻彭威信，数千里遣使迎降。
会彭已薨，帝尽以任贵所献赐彭妻子，谥曰壮侯。
蜀人怜之，为立庙武阳，岁时祠焉。
子遵嗣，徒封细阳侯。
十三年，帝思彭功，复封遵弟淮为穀阳侯。
遵永平中为屯骑校尉。
遵卒，子伉嗣。
伉卒，子杞嗣，元初三年，坐事失国。
建光元年，安帝复封杞细阳侯，顺帝时为光禄勋。
杞卒，子熙嗣，尚安帝妹涅阳长公主。
少为侍中、虎贲中郎将，朝廷多称其能。
迁魏郡太守，招聘隐逸，与参政事，无为而化。
视事二年，舆人歌之曰： 我有枳棘，岑君伐之。
我有蟊贼，岑君遏之。
狗吠不惊，足下生氂。
含哺鼓腹，焉知凶灾？
translation: 
He sent elite cavalry to gallop to Guangdu County, which was only a few dozen miles away from Chengdu. Their offensive was like a sudden storm, and wherever they went, Shu soldiers fled and dispersed.
At first, Gongsun Shu heard that Han soldiers were still in Pingqu, so he sent a large army to resist.
When Cen Peng arrived in Wuyang and reached behind Yan Cen's army, the land of Shu was shaken and frightened.
Gongsun Shu was shocked and struck with his staff: "Why are you so fast!"
The name of the place where Cen Peng camped was Peng Mu. Cen Peng was disgusted when he heard it and was about to move away. Just as the sun was setting, Shu assassins pretended to be slaves and surrendered, and assassinated Cen Peng at night.
Cen Peng first broke through Jingmen, drove Wuyang for a long time, and managed the army in an orderly manner. There was no offense in Qiu.
King Rengui of Qiong Valley heard about Cen Peng's prestige and sent envoys thousands of miles away to welcome the surrender.
It happened that Cen Peng was stabbed to death. Guangwu general Ren Guisuo presented all the rewards to Cen Peng's wife and children, and gave him the posthumous title of Zhuanghou.
The Shu people admired his virtues and built a temple for Cen Peng in Wuyang, where they went to worship him every year.
The son followed the heir and was granted the title of Marquis of Xiyang.
In the thirteenth year, the emperor thought of Peng Gong and restored Zundi Huai to the title of Marquis of Guyang.
Zunyong Pingzhong was appointed as the Tunqi school captain.
Zunzu, son and heir.
The couple died, and the heir was Zi Qi. In the third year of the Yuan Dynasty, he lost his country due to his affairs.
In the first year of Jianguang, Emperor An regained the title of Marquis of Qi Xiyang, and during the reign of Emperor Shun, he was granted the title of Guang Luxun.
Qi died, his son was Xisi, and he was the eldest princess Nieyang, the sister of Shang'an.
When he was young, he was a servant and a tiger general, and the court often praised him for his ability.
He moved to Wei County as the prefect, recruited people to live in seclusion, and participated in political affairs.
In the second year of his reign, the emperor sang a poem: I have thorns of the tangerine tree, and Lord Cen cuts them down.
I have a thief, Lord Cen will stop it.
The dog barks without being startled, but a yak is born under a single step.
How can you know the disaster if you hold your breasts in your mouth and bulge your belly?


Chunk 24: 
original: 
我喜我生，独丁斯时。
美矣岑君，於戏休兹！
熙卒，子福嗣，为黄门侍郎。
贾复字君文，南阳冠军人也。
少好学，习《尚书》。
事舞阴李生，李生奇之，谓门人曰： 贾君之容貌志气如此，而勤于学，将相之器也。 王莽末，为县掾，迎盐河东，会遇盗贼，等比十余人皆放散其盐，复独完以还县，县中称其信。
时，下江、新市兵起，复亦聚众数百人于羽山，自号将军。
更始立，乃将其众归汉中王刘嘉，以为校尉。
复见更始政乱，诸将放纵，乃说嘉曰： 臣闻图尧、舜之事而不能至者，汤、武是也；图汤、武之事而不能至者，桓、文是也；图桓、文之事而不能至者，六国是也；定六国之规，欲安守之而不能至者，亡六国是也。
今汉室中兴，大王以亲戚为藩辅，天下未定而安守所保，所保得无不可保乎？ 嘉曰： 卿言大，非吾任也。
translation: 
I enjoy my life and am alone.
Cenjun is so beautiful, you are so happy to play!
After Xi died, his son Fusi became the minister of Huangmen.
Jia Fu, courtesy name Junwen, was a native of Champion County, Nanyang County.
When he was young, he was eager to learn and studied Shangshu.
Li Sheng, who studied Wuyin, was surprised and said to his disciples: "Jia Jun has such a good appearance and ambition, and he is diligent in learning. He is a tool for generals." In the last years of Wang Mang's life, he was a county agent and went to the east of Hedong to pick up salt. He happened to encounter thieves. More than ten people in the same situation as him abandoned or scattered the salt. Only Jia Fu transported the salt back to the county intact, and the county believed that he was reliable in his work.
At that time, troops rose up in Xiajiang and Xinshi. Jia Fu also gathered hundreds of people at Yushan and proclaimed himself a general.
When Gengshi was established, he led his tribe to join Liu Jia, the king of Hanzhong, and Liu Jia made him the school captain.
Jia Fu saw the political chaos in Gengshi and the wanton behavior of the generals, so he said to Liu Jia: I heard that those who pursue the cause of Yao and Shun and fail to achieve it are King Shang, Tang and Zhou Wu;
Now that the Han Dynasty is reviving, the king uses the Liu clan as an assistant to the vassal. The world is not yet settled, but it is safe to protect. Isn't there some unprotectable protection? Liu Jia said: What you are talking about is too big for me to take on.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
大司马刘公在河北，必能相施，第持我书往。 复遂辞嘉，受书北度河，及光武于柏人，因邓禹得召见。
光武奇之，禹亦称有将帅节，于是署复破虏将军督盗贼。
复马羸，光武解左骖以赐之。
官属以复后来而好陵折等辈，调补鄗尉，光武曰： 贾督有折冲千里之威，方任以职，勿得擅除。
光武至信都，以复为偏将军。
及拔邯郸，迁都护将军。
从击青犊于射犬，大战至日中，贼陈坚不却。
光武传召复曰： 吏士皆饥，可且朝饭。 复曰： 先破之，然后食耳！ 于是被羽先登，所向皆靡，贼乃败走。
诸将咸服其勇。
又北与五校战于真定，大破之。
复伤创甚。
光武大惊曰： 我所以不令贾复别将者，为其轻敌也。
果然，失吾名将。
闻其妇有孕，生女邪，我子娶之，生男邪，我女嫁之，不令其忧妻子也。 复病寻愈，追及光武于蓟，相见甚欢，大飨士卒，令复居前，击邺贼，破之。
translation: 
Grand Sima Liu Xiu is in Hebei. He will definitely be able to use it. All he needs to do is go there with my handwritten letter. Jia Fu then bid farewell to Liu Jia, accepted Liu Jia's letter and crossed the Yellow River north to catch up with Guangwu in Bairen. Deng Yu introduced Guangwu to him.
Guangwu was surprised, and Deng Yu also praised Jia Fu for his general's integrity, so he temporarily appointed Jia Fu as a general to break the captives and supervise the thieves.
Jia Fu's horse was weak, so Guangwu drove his chariot and rewarded Jia Fu with the horse on the left.
Because Jia Fu was a latecomer and liked to bully and frustrate his peers, the officials planned to transfer him to assist Gao Wei. Guangwu said: "Jia Fu has the power to repel enemy troops thousands of miles away. He has just been appointed to an important position and cannot be dismissed at will."
When Guangwu arrived in Xindu, he appointed Jia Fu as a partial general.
After capturing Handan, he moved the capital to protect the general.
From Guangwu's attack on Qingdu and Shedog, the battle continued until the middle of the day, and the bandits' position was strong and unyielding.
Guangwu summoned Jia Fu and said, "The officials and soldiers are all hungry. Let's eat for now." Jia Fu said: First defeat the thief, and then eat. So he carried the bird feather as a banner and went to the enemy first. Wherever he went, the enemy was invincible, and the thieves were defeated.
All the generals were convinced of his bravery.
In the north, he fought with the bandits from the five schools in Zhending and defeated the bandit army.
Jia Fu was seriously injured.
Guangwu was shocked and said: The reason why I did not let Jia Fu serve as a general fighting in conjunction with the main force is because he underestimated the enemy.
Sure enough, a famous general was lost.
I heard that his wife is pregnant. If the baby is a daughter, my son will marry her. If the baby is a boy, my daughter will marry him. Don’t let him worry about his wife and children! Jia Fu soon recovered from his injuries. He caught up with Guangwu at Ji. He was very happy after meeting him. He held a banquet for the soldiers and put Jia Fu in front. He attacked the Ye thieves and won.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
光武即位，拜为执金吾，封冠军侯。
先度河攻朱鲔于洛阳，与白虎公陈侨战，连破降之。
建武二年，益封穰、朝阳二县。
更始郾王尹尊及诸大将在南方未降者尚多，帝召诸将议兵事，未有言，沉吟久之，乃以檄叩地曰： 郾最强，宛为次，谁当击之？ 复率然对曰： 臣请击郾。 帝笑曰： 执金吾击郾，吾复何忧！
大司马当击宛 。
遂遣复与骑都尉阴识、骁骑将军刘植南度五社津击郾，连破之。
月余，尹尊降，尽定其地。
引东击更始淮阳太守暴汜，汜降，属县悉定。
其秋，南击召陵、新息，平定之。
明年春，迁左将军，别击赤眉于新城、渑池间，连破之。
与帝会宜阳，降赤眉。
复从征伐，未尝丧败，数与诸将溃围解急，身被十二创。
translation: 
Guangwu ascended the throne, worshiped Zhijinwu, and was named Champion Hou.
First, he crossed the Yellow River to attack Zhu Tuna in Luoyang, and fought with White Tiger Duke Chen Qiao. He defeated the enemy one after another and forced the enemy to surrender.
In the second year of Jianwu, Rang and Chaoyang counties were added.
Gengshi King Lin Yinzun and many generals in the south did not surrender. Emperor Guangwu summoned the generals to discuss the military affairs. He did not say anything. After thinking for a long time, he knocked on the wooden slip and said: King Lin Yinzun is the strongest, Wan is the second. Who can bear the responsibility of attacking? 贾复慨然回答说： 臣请命攻击尹尊。 光武帝笑说： 执金吾去攻郾王，我还有什么忧虑呢！
Da Sima should go to attack Wan.
So he sent Jia Fu, the Cavalry Commander Yinshi, and the heroic Cavalry General Liu Zhi to the south to cross Wushejin to attack the enemy, and defeated the enemy in succession.
After more than a month, Yin Zun surrendered and all his lands were pacified.
He also led troops to the east to attack Gengshi Huaiyang Governor Baosi. Baosi surrendered and all counties under his control were pacified.
In the autumn of this year, they attacked Zhaoling and Xinxi from the south and pacified them.
In the spring of the next year, he moved to the left general and attacked Chimei between Xincheng and Mianchi, defeating the Chimei army in succession.
He met with Emperor Guangwu in Yiyang and forced Chimei to surrender.
Jia Fu followed the expedition and never failed to lose an army. He and his generals rescued critical situations many times during the siege, and he was injured in twelve places.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
帝以复敢深入，希令远征，而壮其勇节，常自从之，故复少方面之勋。
诸将每论功自伐，复未尝有言。
帝辄曰： 贾君之功，我自知之。
十三年，定封胶东侯，食郁秩、壮武、下密、即墨、梃、观阳，凡六县。
复知帝欲偃干戈，修文德，不欲功臣拥众京师，乃与高密侯邓禹并剽甲兵，敦儒学。
帝深然之，遂罢左右将军。
复以列侯就第，加位特进。
复为人刚毅方直，多大节。
既还私第，阖门养威重。
朱祐等荐复宜为宰相，帝方以吏事责三公，故功臣并不用。
是时，列侯惟高密、固始、胶东三侯与公卿参议国家大事，恩遇甚厚。
三十一年卒，谥曰刚侯。
子忠嗣。
忠卒，子敏嗣。
建初元年，坐诬告母杀人。
国除。
肃宗更封复小子邯为胶东侯，邯弟宗为即墨侯，各一县。
translation: 
Emperor Guangwu seldom ordered Jia Fu to go on expeditions because he dared to go deep into the enemy's army. Instead, he praised his bravery and integrity and often asked him to follow him. Therefore, Jia Fu rarely had any unique achievements.
The generals always boasted about their achievements, but Jia Fu never said anything about himself.
Emperor Guangwu often said: I myself know Jia Jun’s contribution.
In the 13th year of Jianwu's reign, he was granted the title of Marquis of Jiaodong, and was granted the title of Marquis of Jiaodong, with six counties in total: Yuzhi, Zhuangwu, Xiami, Jimo, Li, and Guanyang.
Jia Fu knew that Emperor Guangwu wanted to put an end to war and cultivate civilized virtues, and did not want heroes to gather in the capital, so he worked with Deng Yu, the Marquis of Gaomi, to cut down the armor and soldiers and emphasize Confucianism.
Emperor Guangwu was convinced and dismissed his generals.
Jia Fu was given the title of Marquis Yilie and was given a special rank.
Jia Fu was a resolute and upright man with great integrity.
After returning to his private home, he closed the door and cultivated his mighty virtue.
Zhu et al. recommended Jia Fuyi as prime minister. Emperor Guangwu was relegating official duties to the three princes, so he did not put any meritorious officials into use.
At this time, only Deng Yu, the Marquis of Gaomi, Li Tong, the Marquis of Gushi, and Jia Fu, the Marquis of Jiaodong, could discuss national affairs with the ministers, and they were favored and treated very generously.
He died in the 31st year of Jianwu, and his posthumous title was Ganghou.
Son of a loyal heir.
Zhongzu, Zimin heir.
In the first year of Jianchu's reign, he falsely accused his mother of murder.
The country is removed.
Suzong also granted Xiaozi Han the title of Marquis of Jiaodong, and Handi Zong was granted the title of Marquis of Jimo, each with one county.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
邯卒，子育嗣。
育卒，子长嗣。
宗字武孺，少有操行，多智略。
初拜郎中，稍迁，建初中为朔方太守。
旧内郡徙人在边者，率多贫弱，为居人所仆役，不得为吏。
宗擢用其任职者，与边吏参选，转相监司，以擿发其奸，或以功次补长吏，故各愿尽死。
匈奴畏之，不敢入塞。
征为长水校尉。
宗兼通儒术，每宴见，常使与少府丁鸿等论议于前。
章和二年卒，朝廷愍惜焉。
子参嗣。
参卒，子建嗣。
元初元年，尚和帝女临颍长公主。
主兼食颍阴、许，合三县，数万户。
时邓太后临朝，光宠最盛，以建为侍中，顺帝时为光禄勋。
论曰：中兴将帅立功名者众矣，惟岑彭、冯异建方面之号，自函谷以西，方城以南，两将之功，实为大焉。
若冯、贾之不伐，岑公之义信，乃足以感三军而怀敌人，故能克成远业，终全其庆也。
昔高祖忌柏人之名，违之以全福；征南恶彭亡之地，留之以生灾。
岂几虑自有明惑，将期数使之然乎？
translation: 
Handan died, and his son raised an heir.
If you raise a child, you will have an heir.
His clan name is Wu Ru, he has little conduct and more wisdom.
He first paid homage to the doctor, moved a little later, and built the junior high school as the prefect of Shuofang.
Those who migrated to the border areas of the old Neijun were mostly poor and weak, and they were servants of the residents and were not allowed to serve as officials.
Zong promoted those who held their positions to participate in elections with border officials and transferred them to the Prime Minister's Supervisory Department to expose their traitors, or to supplement the senior officials with their merits, so everyone was willing to die.
The Huns were afraid of it and did not dare to enter the fortress.
He was appointed as the captain of Changshui.
The sect was also proficient in Confucianism and would often discuss with Shaofu Ding Hong and others at every banquet.
Zhang He died in the second year of his life, and the court felt sorry for him.
Zi Shen Si.
After participating in the death, the son established an heir.
In the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, the daughter of Emperor Shanghe came to Princess Ying.
The main food is Yingyin and Xu, which combines the three counties with tens of thousands of households.
When the Empress Dowager Deng came to the court, Guang favor was the most popular. Jian was appointed as the minister, and when Emperor Shun was appointed as Guang Luxun.
The historian commented: There are many ZTE generals who have made great achievements. Only Cen Peng and Feng Yi made great achievements. From the west of Hangu and south of Fangcheng, the two generals made the greatest contributions.
For example, Feng Yi and Jia Fu did not take credit for themselves, but Cen Gong's loyalty was enough to impress the three armies and frighten the enemy. Therefore, they were able to achieve great things and preserve Rongqing in the end.
In the past, Emperor Gaozu was jealous of the name of "Bo people" and left there, so he was blessed; Cen Peng hated the place where Peng died and wanted to move but could not, so he suffered disasters if he stayed there.
Is it possible that there is confusion within a few moments, and that luck and misfortune may be caused by destiny?


