Chunk 0: 
original: 
邓禹字仲华，南阳新野人也。
年十三，能诵诗，受业长安。时光武亦游学京师，禹年虽幼，而见光武知非常人，遂相亲附。
数年归家。
及汉兵起，更始立，豪杰多荐举禹，禹不肯从。
及闻光武安集河北，即杖策北渡，追及于邺。
光武见之甚欢，谓曰： 我得专封拜，生远来，宁欲仕乎？ 禹曰： 不愿也。 光武曰： 即如是，何欲为？ 禹曰： 但愿明公威德加于四海，禹得效其尺寸，垂功名于竹帛耳。 光武笑，因留宿闲语。
禹进说曰： 更始虽都关西，今山东未安，赤眉、青犊之属，动以万数，三辅假号，往往群聚。
更始既未有所挫，而不自听断，诸将皆庸人屈起，志在财币，争用威力，朝夕自快而已，非有忠良明智，深虑远图，欲尊主安民者也。
四方分崩离析，形势可见。
明公虽建藩辅之功，犹恐无所成立。
于今之计，莫如延揽英雄，务悦民心，立高祖之业，救万民之命。
以公而虑天下，不足定也。 光武大悦，因令左右号禹曰邓将军。
常宿止于中，与定计议。
及王郎起兵，光武自蓟至信都，使禹发奔命，得数千人，令自将之，别攻拔乐阳。从至广阿，光武舍城楼上，披舆地图，指示禹曰： 天下郡国如是，今始乃得其一。
子前言以吾虑天下不足定，何也？ 禹曰： 方今海内淆乱，人思明君，犹赤子之慕慈母。古之兴者，在德薄厚，不以大小。 光武悦。
时任使诸将，多访于禹，禹每有所举者，皆当其才，光武以为知人。
使别将骑，与盖延等击铜马于清阳。
延等先至，战不利，还保城，为贼所围。禹遂进与战，破之，生获其大将。
从光武追贼至蒲阳，连大克获，北州略定。
及赤眉西入关，更始使定国上公王匡、襄邑王成丹、抗威将军刘均及诸将，分据河东、弘农以拒之。
赤眉众大集，王匡等莫能当。光武筹赤眉必破长安，欲乘并关中，而方自事山东，未知所寄，以禹沉深有大度，故授以西讨之略。
translation: 
Deng Yu, courtesy name Zhonghua, was a native of Xinye County, Nanyang County.
At the age of thirteen, he was able to recite poems and studied under a teacher in Chang'an. At that time, Guangwu was also traveling to the capital to study. Although Deng Yu was young, when he saw Guangwu, he knew that he was not an ordinary person, so he got close to him.
Return home after a few years.
When the Han army rose up and Gengshi came to the throne, many heroes recommended Deng Yu, but Deng Yu refused to comply.
Guangwu said: Even so, what do you want to do? Deng Yu said: I hope that Duke Ming's majesty will spread throughout the world, and I will be able to do my best for Duke Ming and go down in history.
Guangwu laughed and left him to sleep and chat.
Deng Yujin said: Although Guanxi was the capital of Gengshi, there is no stability in Shandong now. The likes of Red Eyebrow and Qingdu are often robbed by tens of thousands, and people in Sanfu area often gather in groups under the guise of names.
Gengshi did not defeat them, and they did not listen to the command and ruling. The generals were all mediocre people who wanted to get rich, compete for power, and be happy sooner or later. They were not loyal, wise, foresighted, and really wanted to respect the Lord and appease the people.
The four parties are falling apart and the situation is clearly visible.
Although Ming Gong has established a meritorious service in assisting the royal family, he may not be able to achieve great success.
For the current plan, it is better to recruit heroes from all over the world, make sure to please the people, build the great cause of the great ancestor, and save the lives of the people.
It is enough to pacify the world with public virtue and talent. Emperor Guangwu was so pleased that he ordered everyone around him to call Deng Yu General Deng.
Let him stay in the tent and discuss strategic plans together.
When Wang Lang raised his army, Guangwu went from Ji to Xindu and sent Deng Yu to recruit "quick troops" from various counties. He got thousands of people and ordered him to personally lead them to attack Leyang County.
Deng Yu said: Now there is chaos in the sea, and people miss Ming Jun like a baby longing for its loving mother. In ancient times, it was the strength of virtue, not the size of the land, that made great achievements and conquered the world. Guangwu is happy.
When appointing generals at that time, they often visited Deng Yu. The talents recommended by Deng Yu were all worthy of their positions. Guangwu believed that Deng Yu knew people.
He was sent to lead another cavalry team with Gai Yan and others to attack the bronze horses in Qingyang.
Gai Yan and others arrived first, but lost the battle and retreated to protect the city. They were trapped by the thieves. Deng Yu advanced to fight with the thieves, defeated the thieves and captured their general alive.
From Guangwu chasing the thieves to Puyang, they won consecutive battles and Beizhou was generally pacified.
When Chimei entered the pass in the west, Gengshi sent Duke Kuang of Dingguo, Chengdan of Xiangyi, General Liu Jun of Anti-Wei and other generals to guard Hedong and Hongnong counties respectively to resist.
The Red Eyebrow tribe gathered in large numbers, and Wang Kuang and others could not resist it. Guangwu expected that the Red Eyebrow Army would break through Chang'an and wanted to take advantage of the opportunity to annex Guanzhong. However, he was busy with Shandong and did not know who to entrust with the Western Expedition. Since Deng Yu had the demeanor of a general, he gave him the strategy of Western Expedition.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
乃拜为前将军持节，中分麾下精兵二万人，遣西入关，令自选偏裨以下可与俱者。
于是以韩歆为军师，李文、李春、程虑为祭酒，冯愔为积弩将军，樊崇为骁骑将军，宗歆为车骑将军，邓寻为建威将军，耿为赤眉将军，左于为军师将军，引而西。
建武元年正月，禹自箕关将入河东，河东都尉守关不开，禹攻十日，破之，获辎重千余乘。
进围安邑，数月未能下。
更始大将军樊参将数万人，度大阳欲攻禹，禹遣诸将逆击于解南，大破之，斩参首。
于是王匡、成丹、刘均等合军十余万，复共击禹，禹军不利，樊崇战死。
会日幕，战罢，军师韩歆及诸将见兵势已摧，皆劝禹夜去，禹不听。
明日癸亥，匡等以六甲穷日不出，禹因得更理兵勒众。
明旦，匡悉军出攻禹，禹令军中无得妄动；既至营下，因传发诸将鼓而并进，大破广。
承制拜李文为河东太守，悉更置属县令长以镇抚之。
是月，光武即位于鄗，使使者持节拜禹为大司徒。
策曰： 制诏前将军禹：深执忠孝，与朕谋谟帷幄，决胜千里。
孔子曰： 自吾有回，门人日亲。
斩将破军，平定山西，功效尤著。
百姓不亲，五品不训，汝作司徒，敬敷五教，五教在宽。
今遣奉车都尉授印绶，封为酂侯，食邑万户。
敬之哉！ 禹时年二十四。遂渡汾阴河，入夏阳。
更始中郎将左辅都尉公乘歙，引其众十万，与左冯翊兵共拒禹于衙，禹复破走之，而赤眉遂入长安。
translation: 
He worshiped Deng Yu as the former general and divided his 20,000 elite troops equally. He sent him to the west and ordered Deng Yu to select the generals and subordinates who could join him in the western expedition.
So Han Xin was appointed as the military advisor, Li Wen, Li Chun, and Cheng Liu were used as sacrificial wines, Feng Yiyin was appointed as General Jinu, Fan Chong was appointed General Xiaoqi, Zong Xin was appointed General Chariot, Deng Xun was appointed General Jianwei, Geng Jinjin was appointed General Red Eyebrow, and Zuo Yu was appointed General Advisor, and they led the army westward.
In the first month of the first year of Jianwu, Deng Yu entered Hedong County from Jiguan. The captain of Hedong County guarded the pass and refused to open it. Deng Yu attacked for ten days and broke through the pass, seizing more than a thousand vehicles with baggage.
He entered Anyi and was unable to capture it for several months.
Gengshi General Fan Shen led tens of thousands of people and crossed Dayang to attack Deng Yu. Deng Yu sent his generals to attack south of Jie County, defeated Fan Shen's army and beheaded Fan Shen.
So Wang Kuang, Cheng Dan, Liu Jun and others combined an army of more than 100,000 to attack Deng Yu. Deng Yu's army was disadvantaged and Fan Chong died in the battle.
It was sunset and the fighting was over. Seeing that the army was in ruins, military advisor Han Xin and other generals advised Deng Yu to leave at night, but Deng Yu refused to listen.
On the second day of Guihai, Wang Kuang and others believed that Guihai was an unlucky day in Liujia and no troops were sent out all day, so Deng Yu was able to stop his weapons and readjust his troops.
The next morning, Kuang's entire army went out to attack Deng Yu. Deng Yu ordered his troops not to move rashly. When Wang Kuang's army arrived at the camp, Deng Yu sent an order to the generals to march forward with great noise and defeat Wang Kuang's army.
Wang Kuang and others abandoned their troops and fled, but Deng Yu led his light cavalry in pursuit. He captured Liu Jun, Hedong Governor Yang Bao, and Chijie Zhonglang General Mi Xi. He killed them all, confiscated six talismans, five hundred seals and ribbons, and countless weapons, and Hedong County was pacified.
In the same month, Guangwu ascended the throne in Gaohuang and sent envoys to worship Deng Yu as the chief minister.
The order of the official appointment said: The former general Deng Yu is ordered to: Adhere to loyalty and filial piety, and plan strategies with me to win a decisive victory thousands of miles away.
Confucius said: Since I had Yan Hui, my disciples have become increasingly close.
He beheaded the generals and defeated the army, and pacified Shanxi, which was a particularly outstanding achievement.
If the people are not close to each other and lack the teachings of the Wuchang, you, as a Situ, should give the people the teachings of the Wuchang. The teachings of the Wuchang lie in generosity.
Now I am sending you Captain Fengche to grant you the seal and ribbon, and you will be granted the title of Marquis of Zan, and you will be able to live in the city for ten thousand households.
Deng Yu was only twenty-four years old at this time. So Deng Yu crossed the Fenyin River and entered Xiayang County.
Gengshi Zhonglang sent Zuo Fuduweigong to She, leading his troops of 100,000, and together with Zuo Fengyi's soldiers, they resisted Deng Yu in Yaxian County. Deng Yu again broke through and drove them away, and the red eyebrow army entered Chang'an.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
是时三辅连覆败，赤眉所过残贼，百姓不知所归。
闻禹乘胜独克而师行有纪，皆望风相携负以迎军，降者日以千数，众号百万。
禹所止辄停车住节，以劳来之，父老童稚，重发戴白，满其车下，莫不感悦，于是名震关西。
帝嘉之，数赐书褒美。
诸将豪杰皆劝禹径攻长安。
禹曰： 不然。 今吾众虽多，能战者少，前无可仰之积，后无转馈之资。
赤眉新拔长安，财富充实，锋锐未可当也。
夫盗贼群居，无终日之计，财谷虽多，变故万端，宁能坚守者也？
上郡、北地、安定三郡，土广人稀，饶谷多畜，吾且休兵北道，就粮养士，以观其弊，乃可图也。 于是引军北至栒邑。
禹所到，击破赤眉别将诸营保，郡邑皆开门归附。
西河太守宗育遣子奉檄降，禹遣诣京师。
帝以关中未定，而禹久不进兵，下敕曰： 司徒，尧也；亡贼，桀也。
长安吏人，遑遑无所依归。
宜以时进讨，镇慰西京，系百姓之心。 禹犹执前意，乃分遣将军别攻上郡诸县，更征兵引谷，归至大要。
遣冯愔、宗歆守栒邑。
二人争权相攻，愔遂杀歆，因反击禹，禹遣使以闻。
帝问使人： 愔所亲爱为谁？ 对曰： 护军黄防。 帝度愔、防不能久和，势必相忤，因报禹曰： 缚冯愔者，必黄防也。 乃遣尚书宗广持节降之。
后月余，防果执愔，将其众归罪。
更始诸将王匡、胡殷等皆诣广降，与共东归。
至安邑，道欲亡，广悉斩之。
愔至洛阳，赦不诛。
二年春，遣使者更封禹为梁侯，食四县。
时，赤眉西走扶风，禹乃南至长安，军昆明池，大飨士卒。
率诸将斋戒，择吉日，修礼谒祠高庙，收十一帝神主，遣使奉诣洛阳，因循行园陵，为置吏士奉守焉。
禹引兵与延岑战于蓝田，不克，复就谷云阳。
汉中王刘嘉诣禹降。
嘉相李宝倨慢无礼，禹斩之。
宝弟收宝部曲击禹，杀将军耿。
无得复妄进兵。 禹惭于受任而功不遂，数以饥卒徼战，辄不利。
三年春，与车骑将军邓弘击赤眉，遂为所败，众皆死散。
事在《冯异传》。
独与二十四骑还诣宜阳，谢上大司徒、梁侯印绶。
有诏归侯印绶。
数月，拜右将军。
延岑自败于东阳，遂与秦丰合。
四年春，复寇顺阳间。
遣禹护复汉将军邓晔、辅汉将军于匡，击破岑于邓；追至武当，复破之。
岑奔汉中，余党悉降。
十三年，天下平定，诸功臣皆增户邑，定封禹为高密侯，食高密、昌安、夷安、淳于四县。
帝以禹功高，封弟宽为明亲侯。
其后左右将军官罢，以特进奉朝请。
禹内文明，笃行淳备，事母至孝。
天下既定，常欲远名势。
translation: 
At this time, Sanfu's armies were defeated one after another. The Red Eyebrow Army brutally plundered wherever they passed, and the people did not know where they were going.
I heard that Deng Yu always took advantage of victory and his troops were well-disciplined, so they all came to welcome Deng Yu's army with their young and old. Thousands of people returned every day, and the crowd was said to be millions.
Wherever Deng Yu went, he often stopped to pay his respects and express his condolences. Fathers and children, with their white hair hanging in buns, crowded under his car. They were all grateful and happy, so Deng Yu became famous in Guanxi.
The emperor praised him and wrote several letters praising him.
All the generals and heroes advised Deng Yu to attack Chang'an directly.
Deng Yu said: Otherwise, although we have many troops now, there are few who can fight. There will be no savings to rely on in the front, and there will be no resources for transfer behind.
The Red Eyebrow Army had just captured Chang'an, with abundant wealth and unstoppable morale.
However, thieves live in groups and have no plan for the whole day. Although there is a lot of wealth, there are many changes, how can they hold on?
The three counties of Shangjun, Beidi, and Anding are vast, sparsely populated, and plentiful in grain, rice, and livestock. We are temporarily reorganizing the army in the north, providing food and nourishing the soldiers, so as to observe the weaknesses of the Red Eyebrow Army, and then try to attack them! So he led his army north to Yuyi County.
Wherever Deng Yu went, he defeated the Red Eyebrow Army's various camps and defenses, and all counties and counties opened their doors and surrendered.
Zongyu, the prefect of Xihe, sent his son to surrender with Deng Yu's documents from various places in hand, and Deng Yu sent him to the capital.
The emperor thought that Guanzhong was not yet settled and Deng Yu had not advanced for a long time, so he issued an order: "Situ is Yao; the traitor is Jie."
The officials and people in Chang'an were in panic and had nowhere to turn.
We should seize the opportunity to attack and calm Xijing to maintain the hearts of the people. Deng Yu still insisted on his previous opinions and sent his generals to attack the counties in Shangjun separately. He also recruited troops to bring in grain and returned to Dayao County.
Feng Huanyin and Zong Xin were sent to guard Yuyi.
The two fought for power and attacked each other. Feng Yiyin killed Zong Xin and counterattacked Deng Yu. Deng Yu sent an envoy to report to Emperor Guangwu.
The emperor asked the envoy: Who is the dearest to you? The messenger said: This is Huang Fang, the protector of the army. The emperor guessed that Feng Yiyin and Huang Fang could not reconcile for a long time and would inevitably have a confrontation. Therefore, he told Deng Yu: The person who arrested Feng Yanyin must be Huang Fang. So he sent Shangshu Zongguang to take the talisman to recruit Huang Fang to surrender.
More than a month later, Huang Fang indeed arrested Feng Yanyin and led his troops to accuse him.
Gengshi generals Wang Kuang, Hu Yin and others surrendered to Zong Guang and returned east together with Zong Guang.
When they arrived at Anyi, Wang Kuang and others tried to escape on the way, but Zong Guang killed them all.
Feng Yiyin went to Luoyang and was pardoned but not killed.
In the spring of the second year of Jianwu, he sent envoys to change the title of Deng Yu to the title of Marquis of Liang, and granted him four counties in the city.
At this time, the Red Eyebrow Army marched west to Fufeng, and Deng Yu then went south to Chang'an, where he garrisoned at Kunming Pool and feasted the soldiers with wine and food.
He led the generals to bathe, change clothes, fast, choose auspicious days, practice etiquette and worship in the Gaozu Temple, accept the god of the eleven emperors, and send envoys to Luoyang to visit the garden and mausoleum, and specially arranged officials and soldiers to worship and guard the mausoleum.
Deng Yu led his troops to fight with Yan Cen in Lantian, but failed, so he went to Yunyang.
Liu Jia, the king of Hanzhong, surrendered to Deng Yu.
Liu Jiaxian Li Bao was arrogant and rude, so Deng Yu killed him.
Li Bao's younger brother gathered Li Bao's troops to attack Deng Yu and killed the general Geng Jinjin.
Since Feng Yiyin rebelled against Deng Yu, Deng Yu's prestige was damaged. At this time, the Red Eyebrow Army returned to Chang'an again. Deng Yu fought with it and was defeated. When they arrived at Gaoling, the soldiers were hungry and ate jujube vegetables to survive.
The emperor then summoned Deng Yu back and issued an edict: "Chimei is short of food, so he will naturally come eastward. I only need to break the horse's staff and whip him to defeat him." The generals are not something to worry about, so don't rush into the army rashly.
Deng Yu felt ashamed that he had not accomplished anything since he had been appointed. He sent hungry soldiers to fight several times, but was often unfavorable.
In the spring of the third year, he attacked Chimei with Deng Hong, the chariot and cavalry general, but was defeated by Chimei. All his troops died and dispersed. He returned to Yiyang alone with twenty-four cavalry, and returned the seal to Da Situ and Liang Hou as apology.
The imperial edict was returned to Hou Yinshou.
After a few months, I paid homage to the right general.
Since Yancen was defeated in Dongyang, he cooperated with Qin Feng.
In the spring of the fourth year, they invaded the Shunyang area again.
He sent Deng Yu to protect General Deng Ye of the Fu Han Dynasty and General Yu Kuang of the Fu Han Dynasty, and defeated Yan Cen against Deng. He pursued them to Wudang and defeated Yan Cen again.
Cen fled to Hanzhong, and the rest of the party surrendered.
In the 13th year of Jianwu's reign, the world was peaceful, and all the meritorious officials increased their households. They appointed Deng Yu as the Marquis of Gaomi and received the taxes from the four counties of Gaomi, Chang'an, Yi'an, and Chunyu.
The emperor considered Deng Yu's meritorious service and made Deng Yu's younger brother Deng Kuan the prince of the Ming Dynasty.
Later, the titles of left and right generals were revoked, and they were granted special access to the court to see the emperor.
Deng Yu was civilized at heart, honest, honest and considerate in his behavior, and he served his mother very filially.
The world has been peaceful, and people often want to distance themselves from fame and power.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
有子十三人，各使守一艺。
修整闺门，教养子孙，皆可以为后世法。
显宗即位，以禹先帝元功，拜为太傅，进见东向，甚见尊宠。
居岁余，寝疾。
帝数自临问，以子男二人为郎。
永平元年，年五十七薨，谥曰元侯。
帝分禹封为三国：长子震为高密侯，袭为昌安侯，珍为夷安侯。
禹少子鸿，好筹策。
永平中，以为小侯。
引入与议边事，帝以为能，拜将兵长史，率五营士屯雁门。
肃宗时，为度辽将军。
永元中，与大将军窦宪俱出击匈奴，有功，征行车骑将军。
出塞追畔胡逢侯，坐逗留，下狱死。
高密侯震卒，子乾嗣。
乾尚显宗女沁水公主。
永元十四年，阴皇后巫蛊事发，乾从兄奉以后舅被诛，乾从坐，国除。
元兴元年，和帝复封乾本国，拜侍中。
乾卒，子成嗣。
成卒，子褒嗣。
褒尚安帝妹舞阴长公主，桓帝时为少府。
褒卒，长子某嗣。
少子昌袭母爵为舞阴侯，拜黄门侍郎。
昌安侯袭嗣子藩，亦尚显宗女平皋长公主，和帝时为侍中。
夷安侯珍子康，少有操行。
兄良袭封，无后，永初六年，绍封康为夷安侯。
时诸绍封者皆食故国半租，康以皇太后戚属，独三分食二，以侍祠侯为越骑校尉。
康以太后久临朝政，宗门盛满，数上书长乐宫谏争，宜崇公室，自损私权，言甚切至。
太后不从。
康心怀畏惧，永宁元年，遂谢病不朝。
太后使内侍者问之。
时宫人出入，多能有所毁誉，其中耆宿皆称中大人。
所使者乃康家先婢，亦自通中大人。
康闻，诟之曰： 汝我家出，亦敢尔耶？ 婢怨恚，还说康诈疾而言不逊。
太后大怒，遂免康官，遣归国，绝属籍。
及从兄骘诛，安帝征康为侍中。
顺帝立，为太仆，有方正称，名重朝廷。
以病免，加位特进。
阳嘉三年卒，谥曰义侯。
translation: 
He had thirteen children, and each of them mastered a skill.
By regulating family rules and educating children and grandchildren, you can become a model for future generations.
All expenses are derived from fiefdom taxes, and no private property is repaired or private gain is sought. Therefore the emperor respects him more.
In the first year of the Zhongyuan Dynasty, he acted as Situ again.
From the emperor's tour of Shandong, he went to Mount Tai to build an altar to worship heaven.
When Xianzong came to the throne, because Deng Yu was the late emperor, he was worshiped as Taifu. When he came to court, he was ordered to stand facing east and treated like a guest, and he was very respected and favored. In the first year of Yongping, Deng Yu died at the age of fifty-seven. His posthumous title is Yuan Hou.
The emperor divided Yu into three kingdoms: Zhen, the eldest son, was the Marquis of Gaomi, Xi was the Marquis of Chang'an, and Zhen was the Marquis of Yi'an.
Yu's young son, Zihong, was good at making plans.
In Yongpingzhong, I thought I was Xiaohou.
Introducing and discussing border affairs, the emperor thought he could, worshiped the general and commander Shi, and led five battalions of soldiers to garrison Yanmen.
During the reign of Emperor Suzong, he was the general of Du Liao.
In the Yongyuan period, he and the general Dou Xian jointly attacked the Huns and achieved great success, conquering the chariot and cavalry generals.
He went out of the fortress to pursue Hu Fenghou, stayed there, and was thrown into prison to die.
Gaomi Hou Zhen died and was succeeded by his son.
Princess Qinshui, the daughter of Emperor Qian Shangxian.
In the fourteenth year of Yongyuan, the Yin Queen's witchcraft incident occurred. Qian Cong's brother Feng Hou's uncle was executed, Qian Cong was seated, and the country was eliminated.
In the first year of Yuanxing, Emperor He was granted the title of Qian and served as his minister.
When the emperor dies, the son becomes an heir.
After death, the son praises the heir.
Princess Wuyin, the sister of Emperor Shang An, was the Shaofu during the reign of Emperor Huan.
Praise for death, the eldest son of a certain heir.
The youngest son Chang took the title of Marquis of Wuyin from his mother-in-law and worshiped Huangmen as his minister.
The Marquis of Chang'an succeeded to the vassal vassal, and the eldest daughter of the clan, Princess Pinggao, served as an attendant during the reign of Emperor He.
The Marquis of Yi'an, Zhen Zikang, had little conduct.
Brother Liang attacked and had no heirs. In the sixth year of Yongchu, Shao granted Kang Kang the title of Marquis of Yi'an.
At that time, all those who were granted the title of Shao lived half of the rent from their homeland. Kang, who was a relative of the empress dowager, only had three to two of his own, and served as the auxiliary of the Yue Cavalry School.
The Empress Dowager Kang Yi had been in the government for a long time, and the clan was full of people. She wrote several letters to Changle Palace to advise against the disputes. She should worship the public office at the expense of her private rights.
The Queen Mother refused.
Kang was afraid, so in the first year of Yongning, he declined due to illness.
The Queen Mother asked her servants to ask.
At that time, the people in the palace came and went, and many of them could be criticized or praised. Among them, the elders were all called Zhongdaren.
The envoy was the maidservant of the Kang family, who was also from Tongzhong.
When Kang heard about it, he criticized him and said: "How dare you come from my family?" The maid was resentful and said that it was not good for Kang to pretend to be ill.
The Queen Mother was furious, so she dismissed Kang as an official and sent him back to his country without any official status.
After his brother was executed, Emperor An of Zhengkang became his minister.
After Emperor Shun was established, he was appointed as a servant. He had the title of Fangzheng and was well-known in the court.
Avoid illness and get special promotion.
He died in the third year of Yangjia, and his posthumous title was Hou Yi.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
论曰： 夫变通之世，君臣相择，斯最作事谋始之几也。
邓公嬴粮徒步，触纷乱而赴光武，可谓识所从会矣。于是中分麾下之军，以临山西之隙，至使关河响动，怀赴如归。
功虽不遂，而道亦弘矣！
及其威损栒邑，兵散宜阳，褫龙章于终朝，就侯服以卒岁，荣悴交而下无二色，进退用而上无猜情，使君臣之美，后世莫窥其间，不亦君子之致为乎！
寇恂字子翼，上谷昌平人也，世为著姓。
恂初为郡功曹，太守耿况甚重之。
王莽败，更始立。使使者徇郡国，曰 先降者复爵位 。
恂从耿况迎使者于界上，况上印绶，使者纳之，一宿无还意。
恂勒兵入见使者，就请之。
使者不与，曰： 天王使者，功曹欲胁之邪？ 恂曰： 非敢胁使君，窃伤计之不详也。
今天下初定，国信未宣，使君建节衔命，以临四方，郡国莫不延颈倾耳，望风归命。
今始至上谷而先堕大信，沮向化之心，生离畔之隙，将复何以号令它郡乎？
且耿府君在上谷，久为使人所亲，今易之，得贤则造次未安，不紧则只更生乱。
为使君计，莫若复之以安百姓。 使者不应，恂左右以使者命召况。况至，恂进取印绶带况。
使者不得已，乃承制诏之，况受而归。
及王郎起，遣将徇上谷，急况发兵。
恂与门下掾闵业共说况曰： 邯郸拔起，难可信向。
昔王莽时，所难独有刘伯升耳。
translation: 
The historian commented: In the era of change, kings and ministers choose each other, which is the key to the initial planning of things.
Deng Gong carried food on foot and ran alone in the chaos. It can be said that he knew where he was going and what he would do. He divided half of the army to attack the gap in Shanxi, so that the east of the river and the west of Guanxi were shaken. Those who defected to his command felt as if they had returned home.
Although the achievements were not completed, the moral virtues were promoted.
Later, although the power of the city was lost, the troops dispersed in Yiyang, and Situ's seal and ribbon were handed over, the marquis still died in his years, glorious and haggard, but his subordinates were always the same. He was promoted to an official, and he returned to the court in frustration. Guangwu never doubted him, so that future generations would not see any flaws or barriers in the beauty of the monarch and his ministers. Isn't this the most perfect act of a benevolent gentleman?
Kou Xun, courtesy name Ziyi, was from Changping County, Shanggu County, and his surname has been prominent for generations.
Kou Xun was initially a meritorious officer of the county, and the prefect Geng Kuang thought highly of him.
When Wang Mang failed, Gengshi ascended the throne and sent envoys to declare to the various counties that those who surrendered first would have their titles restored.
Kou Xun followed Geng Kuang to greet the envoy at the border. Geng Kuang presented the seal and ribbon. The envoy accepted it and had no intention of returning it all night.
Kou Xun brought weapons to see the envoy. Please return the seal and ribbon.
The messenger refused to give it and said: I am the messenger of the King of Heaven. Does the master want to coerce me? Kou Xun said: "It's not that I dare to coerce you, but privately I feel sad for your poor plan."
Now that the world has been settled, the country's credibility has not been declared, so the king can establish a talisman to carry out missions to all directions. Everyone in the county and country stretches their necks and tilts their ears, watching for the wind and returning to their fate.
Now that you first arrived in Shanggu, you destroyed Daxin, discouraged the whole county's desire to return to Hue, and created a gap for centrifugal betrayal. How will you command other counties?
Moreover, Lord Geng was in Shanggu and had been trusted by the officials and the people for a long time. Now if he is replaced, if he is succeeded by a virtuous man, Geng will be uneasy, and if he is an unworthy person, he will be reborn in chaos.
In order to make your plans better, there is no better way to restore Geng Kuang's position as governor to bring peace to the people. The envoy did not agree, and Kou Xun angrily scolded the people around him to summon Geng Kuang according to the envoy's order. When Geng Kuang arrived, Kou Xun gave the seal and ribbon to Geng Kuang.
The envoy had no choice but to reinstate Geng Kuang in accordance with the emperor's will. Geng Kuang returned from his post.
When Wang Lang raised his troops, he sent generals to attack Shanggu and urgently ordered Geng Kuang to send troops.
Kou Xun and his disciple Yu Minye jointly said to Geng Kuang: Handan has suddenly risen, and it is difficult to trust and return.
In the past, when Wang Mang was king, only Liu Boxheng was the most rare.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
今闻大司马刘公，伯升母弟，尊贤下士，士多归之，可攀附也。 况曰： 邯郸方盛，力不能独拒，如何？ 恂对曰： 今上谷完实，控弦万骑，举大郡之资，可以详择去就。
恂请东约渔阳，齐心合众，邯郸不足图也。 况然之，乃遣恂到渔阳，结谋彭宠。
恂还，至昌平，袭击邯郸使者，杀之，夺其军，遂与况子弇等俱南及光武于广阿。
拜恂为偏将军，号承义侯，从破群贼。
数与邓禹谋议，禹奇之，因奉牛、酒共交欢。
光武南定河内，而更始大司马朱鲔等盛兵据洛阳，及并州未定，光武难其守，问于邓禹曰： 诸将谁可使守河内者？ 禹曰： 昔高祖任萧何于关中，无复四顾之忧，所以得专精山东，终成大业。
今河内带河为固，户口殷实，北通上党，南迫洛阳。
寇恂文武备足，有牧人御众之才，非此子莫可使也。 乃拜恂河内太守，行大将军事。
光武谓恂曰： 河内完富，吾将因是而起。
昔高祖留萧何镇关中，吾今委公以河内，坚守转运，给足军粮，率厉士马，防遏它兵，勿令北度而已。 光武于是复北征燕、代。
恂移书属县，讲兵肄射，伐淇园之竹，为矢百余万，养马二千匹，收租四百万斛，转以给军。
朱鲔闻光武北而河内孤，使讨难将军苏茂、副将贾彊将兵三万余人，度巩河攻温。
檄书至，恂即勒军驰出，并移告属县发兵，会于温下。
军吏皆谏曰： 今洛阳兵渡河，前后不绝，宜待众军毕集，乃可出也。 恂曰： 温，郡之藩蔽，失温则郡不可守。 遂驰赴之。
旦日合战，而偏将军冯异遣救，及诸县兵适至，士马四集，幡旗蔽野。
translation: 
Now I heard that Grand Sima Liu Gong was the half-brother of Liu Boxheng. He respected the virtuous and corporal officers, and many scholars attached themselves to him and could be attached to him. Geng Kuang said: Handan is very powerful now and we cannot resist it alone. What should we do? Kou Xun said: Now Shanggu is complete and complete, with thousands of soldiers and cavalry, and has the conditions for a large county. You can choose where to go.
I ask Dong to make an appointment with the governor of Yuyang to work together as one, Handan is not worth considering. Geng Kuang agreed and sent Kou Xun to Yuyang to conspire with Peng Chong.
Kou Xun returned to Changping, attacked the envoy sent by Handan, killed him, and captured his army. Then he and Geng Kuang's son Geng and others went south to pursue Guangwu in Guang'a.
Guangwu worshiped Kou Xun as a partial general, named Chengyihou, and followed him to defeat the bandits.
He discussed with Deng Yu many times. Deng Yu was so impressed with his talent that he offered him cattle wine to drink and have sex with him.
Guangwu Nan secured Hanoi, while Gengshi Commander-in-Chief Zhu Jun and others occupied Luoyang with large troops. Moreover, Bingzhou was not yet stable, so Guangwu was in a dilemma as to who should guard Hanoi. Asked Deng Yu: "Who among the generals can be entrusted to guard Hanoi?" Deng Yu said: In the past, Emperor Gaozu appointed Xiao He to Guanzhong, and he no longer had to worry about looking west, so he was able to plan Shandong carefully and achieve great success.
Today, Hanoi is adjacent to the Yellow River. It is very stable and has a well-established household registration. It is connected to Dang in the north and close to Luoyang in the south.
Kou Xun was well-equipped in civil and military affairs, and had the ability to govern the people and control them all, so he was the only one who could do it. Guangwu then appointed Kou Xun as the prefect of Hanoi and acted as the general in military affairs.
Guangwu said to Kou Xun: Hanoi is intact and prosperous, and I will rise because of it.
In the past, Emperor Gaozu left Xiao He to guard Guanzhong. Now I entrust you with Hanoi to guard the transportation, provide adequate army rations, lead and encourage the soldiers, defend and contain other soldiers and horses, and prevent them from crossing north. Guangwu then went north to conquer Yan and Dai.
Kou Xun transferred letters to each county, discussing military training on horseback and archery, cutting down bamboo in Qiyuan, making more than a million arrows, raising 2,000 horses, and collecting rents of 4 million dendrobium, all of which were transferred to the front line.
When Zhu Tuna heard that Guangwu was heading north and Hanoi was isolated, he sent his general Su Mao and deputy general Jia Qiang to lead more than 30,000 troops across the Gong River to attack Wen.
When the message arrived, Kou Xun immediately led his troops and rushed out, telling all the subordinate counties to send troops to join forces at Wenxia.
The military officers all advised and said: Now Luoyang soldiers are crossing the river, and they are inexhaustible in front and back. They should wait until the troops and horses from all places are gathered before attacking. Kou Xun said: Wen is the barrier of the county. If Wen is lost, the county cannot be defended. So he rushed to Wenzhou.
The battle began at dawn, and the reinforcements sent by General Feng Yi and soldiers from various counties happened to arrive. The soldiers and horses were gathered together, and the flags were flying to cover the field.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
恂乃令士卒乘城，鼓噪大呼，言曰： 刘公兵到！ 苏茂军闻之，阵动，恂因奔击，大破之，追至洛阳，遂斩贾彊。
茂兵自投河死者数千，生获万余人。
恂与冯异过河而还。
自是，洛阳震恐，城门昼闭。
时，光武传闻朱鲔破河内，有顷，恂檄至，大喜曰： 吾知寇子翼可任也！ 诸将军贺，因上尊号，于是即位。
时，军食急乏，恂以辇车骊驾转输，前后不绝，尚书升斗以禀百官。
帝数策书劳问，恂同门生茂陵董崇说恂曰： 上新即位，四方未定，而郡侯以此时据大郡，内得人心，外破苏茂，威震邻敌，功名发闻，此谗人侧目怨祸之时也。
昔萧何守关中，悟鲍生之言而高祖悦。
今君所将，皆宗族昆弟也，无乃当以前人为镜戒。 恂然其言，称疾不视事。
帝将攻洛阳，先至河内，恂求从军。
帝曰： 河内未可离也。 数固请，不听，乃遣兄子寇张、姊子谷崇将突骑，愿为军锋。
帝善之，皆以为偏将军。
建武二年，恂坐系考上书者免。
是时，颍川人严终、赵敦聚众万余，与密人贾期连兵为寇。
恂免数月，复拜颍川太守，与破奸将军侯进俱击之。
数月，斩期首，郡中悉平定。
封恂雍奴侯，邑万户。
执金吾贾复在汝南，部将杀人于颍川，恂捕得系狱。
时尚草创，军营犯法，率多相容，恂乃戮之于市。
复以为耻，叹。
还过颍川，谓左右曰： 吾与寇恂并列将帅，而今为其所陷，大丈夫岂有怀侵怨而不决之者乎？
今见恂，必手剑之！ 恂知其谋，不欲与相见。
translation: 
Kou Xun then ordered his soldiers to ride in the city and beat drums, shouting: "Liu Gong's soldiers are here!" When Su Mao's army heard that the formation was loose, Kou Xun led his army to attack, defeated Su Mao's army, chased him to Luoyang, and beheaded Jia Qiang.
Thousands of Sumao soldiers themselves threw themselves into the Yellow River and died, while more than ten thousand were captured alive.
Kou Xun and Feng Yi crossed the Yellow River and returned.
From then on, Luoyang was shaken and frightened, and the city gates were closed during the day.
At this time, Guangwu heard that Zhu Jun had defeated Hanoi. Soon Kou Xun's letter arrived. Guangwu was overjoyed and said: I know Kou Ziyi is capable of the job! The generals celebrated and gave Guangwu a title, and Guangwu ascended the throne.
At that time, there was an urgent shortage of military rations. Kou Xun used rickshaws and horse-drawn carriages to transport the rations continuously. The minister only sent the amount of rations to the officials.
Emperor Guangwu comforted Kou Xun several times with simple policy letters. Dong Chong, a fellow student from Maoling, said to Kou Xun: The emperor has newly ascended the throne, and the four parties have not yet been settled. At this time, the princes occupy the major counties, win the hearts of the people internally, destroy Sumao externally, intimidate the neighboring enemies, and have great fame. This is the time for treacherous people to look at and cause resentment!
In the past, when Xiao He was guarding the pass, Mingwu adopted Bao Sheng's suggestion and Gao Zu was overjoyed.
The people you are leading now are all Kun brothers of the Liu clan. I'm afraid you want to serve as a warning to those who came before you! Kou Xun thought it was true and pretended to be sick.
The emperor's general attacked Luoyang and went to Hanoi first. Kou Xun asked to join the army.
The emperor said: Hanoi cannot leave you! The emperor refused to listen to his repeated requests, so he sent his brother's son Kou Zhang and sister's son Gu Chong to lead a commando team willing to be the vanguard of the army.
The emperor praised him, but everyone thought he was partial to the general.
In the second year of Jianwu's reign, Kou Xun was dismissed from his post because he was involved in the case of investigating the petition.
At this time, Yan Zhong and Zhao Dun from Yingchuan gathered more than 10,000 people in their tribe and joined forces with the secret man Jia Qi to become bandits.
Kou Xun was dismissed from office for several months, and was worshiped as the prefect of Yingchuan. He jointly attacked with Hou Jin, the traitor general.
Within a few months, Jia Qi's head was beheaded, and Yingchuan County was all pacified.
He was granted the title of Kou Xun Yong Nuhou, and he was able to feed thousands of households in the city.
When Zhijinwu Jiafu was in Runan, his generals killed someone in Yingchuan, and Kou Xun arrested him and imprisoned him.
At that time, the legal system was in its infancy, and those who broke the law in the military camp were mostly tolerated and tolerated, but Kou Xun beheaded him in the city.
Jia Fu sighed in shame.
He passed by Yingchuan on his return and said to his surroundings: "I am the same general as Kou Xun, and now I have been framed by him. How can a man refuse to fight despite being attacked?"
When I see Kou Xun now, I will kill him with my own hands! Kou Xun knew his plan and did not want to meet him.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
谷崇曰： 崇，将也，得带剑侍侧。
卒有变，足以相当。 恂曰： 不然。
昔蔺相如不畏秦王而屈于廉颇者，为国也。
区区之赵，尚有此义，吾安可以忘之乎？ 乃敕属县盛供具，储酒醪，执金吾军入界，一人皆兼二人之馔。
恂乃出迎于道，称疾而还。
贾复勒兵欲追之，而使士皆醉，遂过去。
恂遣谷崇以状闻，帝乃征恂。
恂至引见，时复先在坐，欲起相避。
帝曰： 天下未定，两虎安得私斗？
今日朕分之。 于是并坐极欢，遂共车同出，结友而去。
恂归颍川。
三年，遣使者即拜为汝南太守，又使骠骑将军杜茂将兵助恂讨盗贼。
盗贼清静，郡中无事。
恂素好学，乃修乡校，教生徒，聘能为《左氏春秋》者，亲受学焉。
七年，代朱浮为执金吾。
明年，从车驾击隗嚣，而颍川盗贼群起，帝乃引军还，谓恂曰： 颍川迫近京师，当以时定。
惟念独卿能平之耳，从九卿复出，以忧国可也。 恂对曰： 颍川剽轻，闻陛下远逾阻险，有事陇、蜀，故狂狡乘间相诖误耳。
如闻乘舆南向，贼必惶怖归死。
臣愿执锐前驱。 即日车驾南征，恂从至颍川，盗贼悉降，而竟不拜郡。
百姓遮道曰： 愿从陛下复借寇君一年。 乃留恂长社，镇抚使人，受纳余降。
初，隗嚣将安定高峻，拥兵万人，据高平第一，帝使待诏马援招降峻，由是河西道开。
中郎将来歙承制拜峻通路将军，封关内侯，后属大司马吴汉，共围嚣于冀。
及汉军退，峻亡归故营，复助嚣拒陇阺。
及嚣死，峻据高平，畏诛坚守。
translation: 
Gu Chong said: I am a general, but I can wait with my sword at my side. If there is a sudden change, I can withstand it.
Kou Xun said: Otherwise.
In the past, Lin Xiangru was not afraid of King Qin and gave in to Lian Po, just for the sake of the country!
How can I forget that this kind of righteous deed can be done by a mere Zhao country? So he ordered each county to make a large display of offerings, store enough wine and mash, and lead King Wu's army into the border, so that each person could get wine and food for two people.
Kou Xun then went out to meet Dao, then pretended to be ill and returned.
Jia Fu wanted to lead his troops to pursue him, but the officials and soldiers were all drunk, so he went over.
Kou Xun sent Gu Chong to explain the situation to the emperor, and the emperor summoned Kou Xun.
Kou Xun went to Luoyang and was introduced to the emperor. Jia Fu was sitting there first and was about to get up to avoid it.
The emperor said: The world has not yet been peaceful, how can two tigers fight privately?
Today I reconcile for you. So we sat together, very happy, and then we took a bus out of the city and parted ways as good friends.
Kou Xun returned to Yingchuan.
In the third year of Jianwu's reign, the emperor sent an envoy to worship Kou Xun as the prefect of Runan, and also sent the hussar general Du Mao to lead his troops to help Kou Xun attack the bandits.
The thieves were eliminated and the county was quiet.
Kou Xun was always eager to learn, so he built a rural school, taught students and apprentices, and hired people who could teach Zuo's Spring and Autumn Annals. He himself listened to the teacher's lectures.
In the seventh year of Jianwu's reign, Zhu Fu was replaced by King Wu.
The next year, following Guangwu's attack on Kuaixiao, a group of bandits emerged in Yingchuan. The emperor then led his troops back and told Kou Xun: Yingchuan is approaching the capital and should be pacified as soon as possible.
Thinking of it, you are the only one who can put down the thieves. Come back from the high position of Jiuqing and worry about the country. Kou Xun replied: Yingchuan is strong and agile. I heard that your Majesty went on a dangerous expedition to deal with Long and Shu, so the rebellious and cunning people took the opportunity to cause chaos.
If they hear that His Majesty is heading south, the thieves will surely surrender in fear.
I am willing to lead the elite as a pioneer. That day, he drove south to march, and Kou Xun followed him to Yingchuan. All the thieves surrendered, but he was not appointed as the county guard.
The people gathered in the street and said, "I hope to borrow Kou Jun from your majesty for another year." So Kou Xun was left in Changshe to pacify the officials and the people, and to accept the remaining surrenderers.
At first, the Kaixiao tribe settled Gao Jun, supported tens of thousands of troops, and occupied the first city of Gaoping County. The emperor sent Ma Yuan to recruit Gao Jun to surrender, thus opening the Hexi passage.
Zhonglang came to serve Gao Jun as the general of Tongtong under the orders of Emperor She, and was granted the title of Marquis of Guan Nei. Later, he belonged to the Grand Sima Wu Han, and together they surrounded Weihuo in Hebei.
When the Han army retreated, Gao Jun fled back to his old camp, and then helped Kuai Xiao to defend Longnan Di.
After Wei Xiao's death, Gao Jun occupied Gaoping County and stood firm in fear of execution.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
建威大将军耿弇率太中大夫窦士、武威太守梁统等围之，一岁不拔。
十年，帝入关，将自征之，恂时从驾，谏曰： 长安道里居中，应接近便，安定、陇西必怀震惧，此从容一处可以制四方也。
今士马疲倦，方履险阻，非万乘之固，前年颍川，可为至戒。 帝不从。
进军及汧，峻犹不下，帝议遣使降之，乃谓恂曰： 卿前止吾此举，今为吾行也。
若峻不即降，引耿弇等五营击之。 恂奉玺书至第一，峻遣军师皇甫文出谒，辞礼不屈。
恂怒，将诛文。
诸将谏曰： 高峻精兵万人，率多强弩，西遮陇道，连年不下。
今欲降之而反戮其使，无乃不可乎？ 恂不应，遂斩之。
遣其副归告峻曰： 军师无礼，已戮之矣。
欲降，急降；不欲，固守。 峻惶恐，即日开城门降。
诸将皆贺，因曰： 敢问杀其使而降其城，何也？ 恂曰： 皇甫文，峻之腹心，其所取计者也。
今来，辞意不屈，必无降心。
全之则文得其计，杀之则峻亡其胆，是以降耳。 诸将皆曰： 非所及也。 遂传峻还洛阳。
恂经明行修，名重朝廷，所得秩奉，厚施朋友、故人及从吏士。
常曰： 吾因士大夫以致此，其可独享之乎！ 时人归其长者，以为有宰相器。
十二年卒，谥曰威侯。
子损嗣。
恂同产弟及兄子、姊子以军功封列侯者凡八人，终其身，不传于后。
初所与谋闵业者，恂数为帝言其忠，赐爵关内侯，官至辽西太守。
十三年，复封损庶兄寿为洨侯。
后徙封损扶柳侯。
损卒，子釐嗣，徙封商乡侯。
釐卒，子袭嗣。
恂女孙为大将军邓骘夫人，由是寇氏得志于永初间。
恂曾孙荣。
translation: 
General Geng of Jianwei led Dou Shi, the senior official of Taizhong, Liang Tong, the prefect of Wuwei, and others to besiege Gaoping, but they could not capture it for a year.
In the tenth year of Jianwu's reign, the emperor entered the pass and prepared to conquer it personally. Kou Xun followed Guangwu at that time and advised: "Chang'an is located between Luoyang and Gaoping, so it is convenient to connect. Anding and Longxi will definitely feel shaken and fearful. This is because being comfortable in one place can subdue the four directions."
Now that the soldiers and horses are tired and have just come out of danger, this is not a good strategy for His Majesty to secure the country. The historical events that happened in Yingchuan the year before last can serve as a warning. The emperor did not listen.
After marching to the county, Gao Jun still could not be captured. The emperor discussed sending an envoy to persuade Gao Jun to surrender, and said to Kou Xun: "You stopped my action before, now go for me."
If Gao Jun does not surrender immediately, I will lead Geng and other five battalions to attack. When Kou Xun came to the first city with the seal, Gao Jun sent military advisor Huangfu Wen to pay an audience, but he refused to obey any words or etiquette.
Kou Xun was angry and prepared to kill Huangfu Wen.
The generals remonstrated and said: "We have ten thousand elite soldiers with many powerful crossbows. They have blocked the Long Road in the west and have not been able to capture it for years."
I'm afraid it's not possible to ask him to surrender and kill his envoy now, right? Kou Xun refused and killed Huangfu Wen.
Let his deputy go back and tell Gao Jun: "The military advisor was rude and has been killed."
If you want to surrender, hurry up; if you don't want to surrender, just hold on. Gao Jun was frightened and immediately opened the city gate and surrendered.
All the generals celebrated and said: "Excuse me, I killed his envoy and Gao Jun surrendered the whole city. What is the reason for this?" Kou Xun said: Huangfu Wen is Gao Jun's confidant, and Gao Jun draws all his strategies from him.
Now that he is here, his words are unyielding and he will have no intention of surrender.
If you let him go, Gao Jun will succeed in his plan; if you kill him, Gao Jun will be frightened and surrender. All the generals said: We didn't expect it. So Gao Jun was arrested and returned to Luoyang.
Kou Xun was proficient in classics and cultivated virtues, and his reputation was more important than that of the court. He used all his salary and salary to give generously to his friends, old friends, and officials who followed him.
Often said: I relied on the help of scholar-bureaucrats to get where I am today. How can I enjoy wealth alone? People at that time regarded him as an elder and thought he had the talents of a prime minister.
He died in the twelfth year of Jianwu and was given the posthumous title of Weihou.
Zi Kou lost his heirship.
Kou Xun's brother from the same mother, his brother's son, and sister's son were named marquises for their military merits, a total of eight people. They were all marquises for life but were not passed down to future generations.
At first, Min Ye was planning affairs with Kou Xun. Kou Xun explained his loyalty to the emperor many times, and the emperor conferred on him the title of Marquis of Guannei and the post of governor of western Liaoning.
In the 13th year of Jianwu's reign, he again granted the title of Marquis of Jiujiao to his brother Shou, who had lost his concubine.
Later, he was granted the title of Marquis of Jieliu by Kou Shan.
After Kou Xi's death, his son Kou Li succeeded to the throne and was granted the title of Marquis of Shangxiang.
After Kou Li died, Zi Kou succeeded to the throne.
Kou Xun's granddaughter was the wife of General Deng Zhao, so the Kou family was very successful during the Yongchu period of Emperor An.
Kou Xun's great-grandson Kou Rong.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
论曰：传称 喜怒以类者鲜矣 。
夫喜而不比，怒而思难者，其惟君子乎！
子曰： 伯夷、叔齐，不念旧恶，怨是用希。 于寇公而见之矣。
荣少知名，桓帝时为侍中。
translation: 
The historian commented: "Zuo Zhuan" states that there are very few people who have restrained joy and anger, but there are many people who are moody.
Only a gentleman is the one who is happy but does not compare with others, and thinks of other people's difficulties when angry, right?
Confucius said: Boyi and Shuqi do not remember the past insults made by others, so others do not hold grudges against them.
We can see this kind of character in Kou Gong.


