Chunk 0: 
original: 
成皇帝讳衍，字世根，明帝长子也。
太宁三年三月戊辰，立为皇太子。
闰月戊子，明帝崩。
己丑，太子即皇帝位，大赦，增文武位二等，赐鳏寡孤老帛，人二匹，尊皇后庾氏为皇太后。
秋九月癸卯，皇太后临朝称制。
司徒王导录尚书事，与中书令庾亮参辅朝政。
以抚军将军、南顿王宗为骠骑将军，领军将军、汝南王祐为卫将军。
辛丑，葬明帝于武平陵。
冬十一月癸巳朔，日有蚀之。广陵相曹浑有罪，下狱死。
咸和元年春二月丁亥，大赦，改元，大酺五日，赐鳏寡孤老米，二人斛，京师百里内复一年。
夏四月，石勒遣其将石生寇汝南，汝南人执内史祖济以叛。
甲子，尚书左仆射邓攸卒。
五月，大水。
translation: 
Emperor Cheng's name was Sima Yan, whose courtesy name was Shigen. He was the eldest son of Emperor Ming Sima Shao.
On the second day of March in the third year of Taining, he was established as the crown prince.
On the twenty-fifth day of the eighth month, Emperor Ming died.
On the 26th, the prince became emperor, granted a general amnesty to the world, increased the title of civil and military officials to the second level, gave widows, widowers, orphans and old people two pieces of cloth each, and honored the queen Yu as the empress dowager.
On the ninth day of September, the Empress Dowager came to the court to act as the emperor.
Situ Wang directed the affairs of the ministers and participated in the affairs of the court together with Zhongshu Ling Yu Liang.
He appointed Sima Zong, the general of the Fu army and King of Nanton, as the hussar general, and the leading general, Sima Wei, the king of Runan.
On the 11th, Emperor Ming was buried in Wuping Mausoleum.
On the first day of November, there is a solar eclipse. Cao Hun, the prime minister of Guangling, was guilty and was imprisoned and died.
On the twenty-seventh day of the second month of the second month in the first year of Xianhe, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country, and the new year's title was adopted. A banquet was held for five days. The widows, widows and orphans were given old rice and grain, two huks per person, and the corvée tax was exempted for one year within a hundred miles of the capital.
In April, Shi Le sent his general Shi Sheng to invade Runan, and the Runan people seized Neishi Zuji and rebelled.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, Shangshu Zuopu shot Deng You to death.
In May, there was a flood.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
六月癸亥，使持节、散骑常侍、监淮北诸军事、北中郎将、徐州刺史、泉陵公刘遐卒。
癸酉，以车骑将军郗鉴领徐州刺史，征虏将军郭默为北中郎将、假节、监淮北诸军。
刘遐部曲将李龙、史迭奉遐子肇代遐位以距默，临淮太守刘矫击破之，斩龙，传首京师。
秋七月癸丑，使持节、都督江州诸军事、江州刺史、平南将军、观阳伯应詹卒。
八月，以给事中、前将军、丹阳尹温峤为平南将军、假节、都督，江州刺史。
九月，旱。
李雄将张龙寇涪陵，执太守谢俊。
冬十月，封魏武帝玄孙曹励为陈留王，以绍魏。
丙寅，卫将军、汝南王祐薨。
己巳，封皇弟岳为吴王。
车骑将军、南顿王宗有罪，伏诛，贬其族为马氏。
免太宰、西阳王羕，降为弋阳县王。
庚辰，赦百里内五岁以下刑。
是月，刘曜将黄秀、帛成寇酂，平北将军魏该帅众奔襄阳。
translation: 
On the fifth day of the sixth lunar month, Liu Xia, the envoy Chijie, Sanqi Changshi, supervisor of Huaibei military affairs, Beizhong Langjiang, Xuzhou governor, and Quanling Gong Liu Xia died.
On the 15th, Xi Jian, the chariot and cavalry general, led the governor of Xuzhou, and Guo Mo, the conscript general, was appointed as Beizhonglang general to supervise all the armies in Huaibei.
Liu Xia's generals Li Long and Shi Die supported Liu Xia's son Liu Zhao to replace Liu Xia in order to resist Guo Mo. Liu Jiao, the prefect of Linhuai, defeated them, beheaded Li Long, and sent his head to the capital.
On July 25th, the envoy Chijie, the military commander of Jiangzhou, the governor of Jiangzhou, General Pingnan, and the Marquis of Guanyang County Yingzhan died.
In August, Yi Shizhong, the former general, Danyang Yin Wenqiao was appointed as the general of Pingnan, the governor of Jijie, and the governor of Jiangzhou.
September, severe drought.
Li Xiong's general Zhang Long invaded Fuling and captured the prefect Xie Jun.
In October, Cao Mai, the great-great-grandson of Emperor Wu of Wei, was granted the title of King Chenliu to inherit the Wei state.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, General Wei and King Sima of Runan died.
On the 13th, Sima Yue, the emperor's younger brother, was granted the title of King of Wu.
Sima Zong, the cavalry general and king of Nanton, was found guilty and executed. His family was demoted to the Ma family.
He deposed Dazai and Sima, King of Xiyang, and demoted him to King of Yiyang County.
24. Amnesty for those sentenced to imprisonment of not more than five years within a hundred miles of the capital.
This month, Liu Yao's generals Huang Xiu and Bo Cheng invaded the Zanli territory, and Pingbei general Wei Gai led his troops to Xiangyang.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
十一月壬子，大阅于南郊。
改定王侯国秩，九分食一。
石勒将石聪攻寿阳，不克，遂侵逡遒、阜陵。加司徒王导大司马、假黄钺、都督中外征讨诸军事以御之。
历阳太守苏峻遣其将韩晃讨石聪，走之。
时大旱，自六月不雨，至于是月。
十二月，济岷太守刘闿杀下邳内史夏侯嘉，叛降石勒。
梁王翘薨。
二年春正月，宁州秀才庞遗起义兵，攻李雄将任回、李谦等，雄遣其将罗恆、费黑救之。
宁州刺史尹奉遣裨将姚岳、硃提太守杨术援遗，战于台登，岳等败绩，术死之。
三月，益州地震。
夏四月，旱。
己未，豫章地震。
五月甲申朔，日有蚀之。
丙戌，加豫州刺史祖约为镇西将军。
戊子，京师大水。
冬十月，刘曜使其子胤侵枹罕，遂略河南地。
十一月，豫州刺史祖约、历阳太守苏峻等反。
translation: 
On November 26, there was a grand military parade in the southern suburbs.
The ranking of princes was changed, and one point of tax was collected for every nine points.
Shi Le's general Shi Cong attacked Shouyang but failed to capture it, so he invaded Quqiu and Fuling. He appointed Situ Wangdao as Grand Sima, False Huangyue, and Commander-in-Chief to conquer various military forces at home and abroad to resist him.
Su Jun, the prefect of Liyang, sent his general Han Huang to attack Shi Cong and drive him away.
At that time, there was a severe drought, and there was no rain from June until this month.
In December, Liu, the prefect of Jizhuan, killed Xiahoujia, the internal historian of Xiapi, rebelled and surrendered to Shile.
Liang Wang Sima Qiao died.
In the first month of the second year of Xianhe, Ningzhou scholar Pang Yi raised a rebel army and attacked Li Xiong's generals Ren Hui, Li Qian and others. Li Xiong sent his generals Luo Heng and Fei Hei to rescue them.
Yin Feng, the governor of Ningzhou, sent his deputy Yao Yue and Zhu Ti's prefect Yang Shu to assist Pang Yi and fought in Taideng. Yao Yue and others were defeated and Yang Shu died in the battle.
In March, there was an earthquake in Yizhou.
April, severe drought.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, there was an earthquake in Yuzhang.
On the first day of May, there is a solar eclipse.
On the third day of the lunar month, he was granted the title of General Zhenxi, the governor of Yuzhou.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, there was a flood in the capital.
In October, Liu Yao sent his son Liu Yin to invade Mubaohan and captured the area south of the Yellow River.
In November, Zu Yue, the governor of Yuzhou, Su Jun, the prefect of Liyang, and others rebelled.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
十二月辛亥，苏峻使其将韩晃入姑孰，屠于湖。
壬子，彭城王雄、章武王休叛，奔峻。
庚申，京师戒严。
假护军将军庾亮节为征讨都督，以右卫将军赵胤为冠军将军、历阳太守，使与左将军司马流帅师距峻，战于慈湖，流败，死之。
假骁骑将军钟雅节，帅舟军，与赵胤为前锋，以距峻。
丙寅，徒封琅邪王昱为会稽王，吴王岳为琅邪王。
辛未，宣城内桓彝及峻战于芜湖，彝军败绩。
军骑将军郗鉴遣广陵相刘矩帅师赴京师。
三年春正月，平南将军温峤帅师救京师，次于寻阳，遣督护王愆期、西阳太守邓岳、鄱阳太守纪睦为前锋。
征西大将军陶侃遣督护龚登受峤节度。
钟雅、赵胤等次慈湖，王愆期、邓岳等次直渎。
丁未，峻济自横江，登牛渚。
二月庚戌，峻至于蒋山。
假领军将军卞壸节，帅六军，及峻战于西陵，王师败绩。
丙辰，峻攻青溪栅，因风纵火，王师又大败。
尚书令、领军将军卞壸，丹阳尹羊曼，黄门侍郎周导，庐江太守陶瞻并遇害，死者数千人。
庾亮又败于宣阳门内，遂携其诸弟与郭默、赵胤奔寻阳。
于是司徒王导、右光禄大夫陆晔、荀崧等卫帝于太极殿，太常孔愉守宗庙。
贼乘胜麾戈接于帝座，突入太后后宫，左右侍人皆见掠夺。
是时太官唯有烧余米数石，以供御膳。
translation: 
On the first day of December, Su Jun sent his generals into Gushu to massacre Yuhu.
On the second day of the lunar month, Sima Xiong, king of Pengcheng, and Sima Xiu, king of Zhangwu, rebelled and defected to Su Jun.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, the capital was under martial law.
He appointed the guard general Yu Liang as the governor of the expedition during the holidays, and appointed the right guard general Zhao Yin as the champion general and Liyang governor. They and the left general Sima Liu led their troops to resist Su Jun, and fought at Cihu. Sima Liu was defeated and died.
Ren Xiaoqi General Zhong Ya took the holiday and led the navy with Zhao Yin as the vanguard to resist Su Jun.
On the 16th, Sima Yu, the king of Langya, was moved to be the king of Kuaiji, and Sima Yue, the king of Wu, was named the king of Langya.
On the 21st, Huan Yi and Su Jun fought in Wuhu, and Huan Yi's army was defeated.
Chariot and Cavalry General Xi Jian sent Guangling Prime Minister Liu Ju to lead his troops to the capital.
In the first month of the third year of Xianhe's reign, Pingnan General Wen Qiao led his troops to rescue the capital and stationed in Xunyang. He sent the governor Wang Suqi, the governor of Xiyang Deng Yue, and the governor of Poyang Ji Mu as the vanguard.
Tao Kan, the general who conquered the west, sent the governor Gong Deng to accept the control of Wenqiao Jiedu.
Zhong Ya, Zhao Yin and others were stationed in Cihu, while Wang Suqi, Deng Yue and others were stationed in Zhidu.
On the 28th, Su Jun crossed the Hengjiang River and boarded Niuzhu.
On the first day of February, Su Jun arrived at Jiangshan.
The imperial court appointed the leading general Sima You, King of Runan, as the general of the guard. Bian Hujie led the six armies and fought with Su Jun in Xiling. The king's army was defeated.
On the seventh day of the lunar month, Su Jun attacked Qingxizha and set fire to it. Wang's army was defeated again.
Bian Hu, the leading general of Shangshu Ling, Yin Yangman of Danyang, Zhou Dao, the minister of Huangmen, and Tao Zhan, the prefect of Lujiang, were all killed. Thousands of people died.
Yu Liang failed again at Xuanyang Gate, so he took his younger brother, Guo Mo, and Zhao Yin and fled to Xunyang.
So Situ Wangdao, Youguanglu doctor Lu Ye, Xun Song and others guarded the emperor in the Taiji Hall, and the prefect Kong Yu guarded the ancestral temple.
Taking advantage of the victory, Su Jun and other thieves approached the imperial palace and broke into the Queen Mother's harem. All the attendants on the left and right were plundered.
At this time, the eunuch could only use the remaining few stones of rice to cook rice for the royal family.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
百姓号泣，响震都邑。
丁巳，峻矫诏大赦，又以祖约为侍中、太尉、尚书令，自为骠骑将军、录尚书事。
吴郡太守庾冰奔于会稽。
三月丙子，皇太后庾氏崩。
夏四月，石勒攻宛，南阳太守王国叛，降于勒。
壬申，葬明穆皇后于武平陵。
五月乙未，峻逼迁天子于石头，帝哀泣升车，宫中恸哭。
峻以仓屋为宫，遣管商、张瑾、弘徽寇晋陵，韩晃寇义兴。
吴兴太守虞潭与庚冰、王舒等起义兵于三吴。
丙午，征西大将军陶侃、平南将军温峤、护军将军庾亮、平北将军魏该舟军四万，次于蔡洲。
六月，韩晃攻宣城，内史桓彝力战，死之。
壬辰，平北将军、雍州刺史魏该卒于师。
庐江太守毛宝攻贼合肥戍，拔之。
秋七月，祖约为石勒将石聪所攻，众溃，奔于历阳。
石勒将石季龙攻刘曜于蒲坂。
八月，曜及石季龙战于高候，季龙败绩，曜遂围石生于洛阳。
九月戊申，司徒王导奔于白石。
庚午，陶侃使督护杨谦攻峻于石头。
温峤、庾亮阵于白石，竟陵太守李阳距贼南偏。
translation: 
The people howled and cried, and the sound shook the city.
On the eighth day of the lunar month, Su Jun falsely issued an edict of amnesty to the world, and appointed his ancestors as Shizhong, Taiwei, and Shangshu Ling. He appointed himself General of Hussars and recorded Shangshu affairs.
Yu Bing, the governor of Wu County, fled to Kuaiji.
On March 22, Empress Dowager Yu passed away.
In April, Shi Le attacked Wandi, and the Nanyang Prefecture Kingdom rebelled and surrendered to Shi Le.
On the 24th, Queen Mingmu was buried in Wuping Mausoleum.
On May 18th, Su Jun threatened the emperor to move to Stone City. The emperor got into the car and cried sadly, and the palace was wailing.
Su Jun used the warehouse as his palace, and sent Guan Shang, Zhang Jian, and Hong Hui to invade Jinling, and Han Huang invaded Yixing.
Yu Tan, the governor of Wuxing, Yu Bing, Wang Shu and others launched a rebellion in Sanwu.
On the 29th, Tao Kan, the general who conquered the west, Wen Qiao, the general of Pingnan, Yu Liang, the general of the army guard, and Wei Gai, the general of Pingbei, led 40,000 naval troops and stationed themselves in Caizhou.
In June, Han Huang attacked Xuancheng, and Neishi Huanyi fought hard and died.
On the 15th, General Pingbei and Governor of Yongzhou Wei died in the army.
Mao Bao, the governor of Lujiang, attacked the thieves garrisoning Hefei and captured Hefei.
In the seventh month, Zuyue was attacked by Shi Le's general Shi Cong, and his troops dispersed and fled to Liyang.
Shi Le's general Shi Jilong attacked Liu Yao in Puban.
In August, Liu Yao and Shi Jilong fought in Gaohou, and Shi Jilong was defeated. Liu Yao then besieged Shi Sheng in Luoyang.
On the third day of September, Director Situ Wang fled to Baishi.
On the 25th, Tao Kan asked the governor Yang Qian to attack Su Jun who was defending Stone City.
Wen Qiao and Yu Liang formed a formation at Baishi, and Li Yang, the prefect of Jingling, resisted the bandits' southward division.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
峻轻骑出战，坠马，斩之，众遂大溃。
贼党复立峻弟逸为帅。
前交州刺史张琏据始兴反，进攻广州，镇南司马曾勰等击破之。
冬十月，李雄将张龙寇涪陵，太守赵弼没于贼。
十二月乙未，石勒败刘曜于洛阳，获之。
是岁，石勒将石季龙攻氐帅蒲洪于陇山，降之。
四年春正月，帝在石头，贼将匡术以苑城归顺，百官赴焉。
侍中钟雅、右卫将军刘超谋奉帝出，为贼所害。
戊辰，冠军将军赵胤遣将甘苗讨祖约于历阳，败之，约奔于石勒，其将牵腾帅众降。
峻子硕攻台城，又焚太极东堂、秘阁，皆尽。
城中大饥，米斗万钱。
二月，大雨霖。
丙戌，诸军攻石头。
李阳与苏逸战于柤浦，阳军败。
建威长史滕含以锐卒击之，逸等大败。
含奉帝御于温峤舟，群臣顿首号泣请罪。
弋阳王羕有罪，伏诛。
translation: 
Su Jun led his light cavalry into battle, fell off his horse and was beheaded, causing his troops to disperse.
The bandits appointed Su Jun's younger brother Su Yi as their leader.
Zhang Lian, the former governor of Jiaozhou, occupied Shixing and rebelled, attacking Guangzhou. Zhennan Sima Zeng Xie and others defeated him.
In October, Li Xiong's general Zhang Long invaded Fuling, and the prefect Zhao Bi was killed by the thieves.
On December 21, Shi Le defeated Liu Yao in Luoyang and captured him alive.
This year, Shi Le's general Shi Jilong attacked the Di leader Pu Hong in Longshan, and Pu Hong surrendered.
In the first month of the fourth year of Xianhe's reign, the emperor was in Shitucheng. The bandit general Kuangshu surrendered to Xianyuan City, and all the officials rushed there.
Attendant Zhong Ya and right guard general Liu Chao planned to leave the city for the emperor, but were killed by thieves.
On the 25th, the champion general Zhao Yin sent Gan Miao to Liyang to conquer Zu Yue and defeated Zu Yue. Zu Yue defected to Shi Le, and his general Tian Teng surrendered with his troops.
Su Jun's son Su Shuo attacked Taicheng and burned the East Hall and Secret Pavilion of Tai Chi Hall, turning them all into ashes.
There was a great famine in the city, and a bushel of rice was worth ten thousand yuan.
In February, it rained heavily.
On the 13th, various armies attacked Shitou.
Li Yang and Su Yi fought at Muqiepu, and Li Yang was defeated.
Shi Tenghan, the commander of Jianwei, led his elite troops to attack, and Su Yi and others were defeated.
Teng Han escorted the emperor to Wen Qiao's ship. The officials kowtowed and cried bitterly to apologize.
Sima, the king of Yiyang, was guilty and was executed.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
丁亥，大赦。
时兵火之后，宫阙灰烬，以建平园为宫。
甲午，苏逸以万余人自延陵湖将入吴兴。
乙未，将军王允之及逸战于溧阳，获之。
壬寅，以湘州并荆州。
刘曜太子毗与其大司马刘胤帅百官奔于上邽，关中大乱。
三月壬子，以征西大将军陶侃为太尉，封长沙郡公；车骑将军郗鉴为司空，封南昌县公；平南将军温峤为骠骑将军、开府仪同三司，封始安郡公。
其余封拜各有差。
庚午，以右光禄大夫陆晔为卫将军、开府仪同三司，复封高密王纮为彭城王。
以护军将军庾亮为平西将军、都督扬州之宣城江西诸军事、假节，领豫州刺史，镇芜湖。
夏四月乙未，骠骑将军、始安公温峤卒。
秋七月，有星孛于西北。
会稽、吴兴、宣城、丹阳大水。
诏复遭贼郡县租税三年。
translation: 
On the 14th, a general amnesty was given to the whole world.
After the war, the palace was reduced to ashes, so Jianpingyuan was used as the palace.
On the 21st, Su Yi led more than 10,000 people from Yanling Lake to enter Wuxing.
On the 22nd, General Wang Yunzhi fought with Su Yi in Liyang and captured him alive.
On the 29th, Xiangzhou was merged into Jingzhou.
Liu Yao's crown prince Liu Xi and Grand Sima Liu Yin led hundreds of officials to flee to Shanggui, causing chaos in Guanzhong.
On the tenth day of the third month, Tao Kan, the general who conquered the west, was appointed Taiwei, and was granted the title of Duke of Changsha; Xi Jian, the chariot and cavalry general, was appointed Sikong, and was granted the title of Nanchang county governor; Wen Qiao, the general of Pingnan, was appointed general of hussars and opened the third division of Yitong, and was granted the title of Shi'an county governor.
The rest of the officials have different levels of titles and honors.
On the 16th, Lu Ye, the doctor of Youguanglu, was appointed as the general of Wei and the third division of Kaifu Yitong. He also named Sima, King of Gaomi, as King of Pengcheng.
He appointed Yu Liang, the general of the army guard, as the general of Pingxi. He was in charge of all military affairs and holidays west of the Yangtze River in Xuancheng in Yangzhou. He was also the governor of Yuzhou and guarded Wuhu.
On April 23, General Hussar and Duke Shi'an Wen Qiao died of illness.
In July, the comet appears in the northwest.
Floods occurred in Kuaiji, Wuxing, Xuancheng and Danyang.
The edict exempted counties and counties invaded by bandits from rent and taxes for three years.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
八月，利曜将刘胤等帅众侵石生，次于雍。
九月，石勒将石季龙击胤，斩之，进屠上邽，尽灭刘氏，坑其党三千余人。
冬十月，庐山崩。
十二月壬辰，右将军郭默害平南将军、江州刺史刘胤，太尉陶侃帅众讨默。
是岁，天裂西北。
五年春正月己亥，大赦。
癸亥，诏除诸将任子。
二月，以尚书陆玩为尚书左仆射，孔愉为右仆射。
夏五月，旱，且饥疫。
乙卯，太尉陶侃擒郭默于寻阳，斩之。
石勒将刘徵寇南沙，都尉许儒遇害，进入海虞。
六月癸巳，初税田，亩三升。
秋八月，石勒僭即皇帝位，使其将郭敬寇襄阳。
南中郎将周抚退归武昌，中州流人悉降于勒。
郭敬遂寇襄阳，屯于樊城。
九月，造新宫，始缮苑城。
甲辰，徒乐成王钦为河间王，封彭城王纮子浚为高密王。
translation: 
In August, Liu Yao's general Liu Yin and others led their troops to invade Shisheng and stationed themselves in Yong.
In September, Shi Le's general Shi Jilong attacked Liu Yin and killed him. He then massacred Shangguiquan, wiped out Liu's clan, and killed more than 3,000 of his comrades.
In October, Lushan Mountain collapsed.
On December 24, the right general Guo Mo killed General Pingnan and Jiangzhou governor Liu Yin. Taiwei Tao Kan led his troops to conquer Guo Mo.
This year, the northwest sky cracked.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the fifth year of Xianhe, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
On the 25th, an edict was issued to allow the children of generals to retain their official positions due to the merits of their fathers and brothers.
In February, Lu Wan was appointed as Shangshu Zuopushe, and Kong Yu was appointed as Shangshu Zuopushe.
In May, there was severe drought, coupled with famine and plague.
On the 19th, Taiwei Tao Kan captured Guo Mo and beheaded him in Xunyang.
Shi Le's general Liu Zheng invaded Nansha, Captain Xu Ru was killed, and Liu Zheng entered Haiyu.
On June 28, the field tax began to be collected, and the tax was three liters per mu.
In August, Shi Le usurped the throne as emperor and ordered his general Guo Jing to invade Xiangyang.
Nan Zhonglang retreated Zhou Fu back to Wuchang, and all the scattered people in Zhongzhou surrendered to Shi Le.
Guo Jing then destroyed Xiangyang and garrisoned it in Fancheng.
In September, the new palace was built and the garden city began to be repaired.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, Sima Qin, King of Lecheng, was granted the title of King of Hejian, and Sima Jun, son of Sima, King of Pengcheng, was granted the title of King of Gaomi.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
冬十月丁丑，幸司徒王导第，置酒大会。
李雄将李寿寇巴东、建平，监军毌丘奥、太守杨谦退归宜都。
十二月，张骏称臣于石勒。
六年春正月癸巳，刘徵复寇娄县，遂掠武进。
乙未，进司空郗鉴都督吴国诸军事。
戊午，以运漕不继，发王公已下千余丁，各运米六斛。
二月己丑，以幽州刺史、大单于段辽为骠骑将军。
三月壬戌朔，日有蚀之。
癸未，诏举贤良直言之士。
夏四月，旱。
六月丙申，复故河间王颙爵位，封彭城王植子融为乐成王，章武王混子珍为章武王。秋七月，李雄将李寿侵阴平，武都氐帅杨难敌降之。
八月庚子，以左仆射陆玩为尚书令。
七年春正月辛未，大赦。
三月，西中郎将赵胤、司徒中郎匡术攻石勒马头坞，克之。
勒将韩雍寇南沙及海虞。
夏四月，勒将郭敬陷襄阳。
五月，大水。
秋七月丙辰，诏诸养兽之属，损费者多，一切除之。
太尉陶侃遣子平西参军斌与南中郎将桓宣攻石勒将郭敬，破之，克樊城。
竟陵太守李阳拔新野、襄阳，因而戍之。
冬十一月壬子朔，进太尉陶侃为大将军。诏举贤良。
十二月庚戌，帝迁于新宫。
八年春正月辛亥朔，诏曰： 昔犬贼纵暴，宫室焚荡，元恶虽翦，未暇营筑。
有司屡陈，朝会逼狭，遂作斯宫，子来之劳，不日而成。
既获临御，大飨群后，九宾充诞，百官象物。
知君子勤礼，小人尽力矣。
translation: 
On October 14, the emperor came to the mansion of King Situ and held a banquet to hold a banquet with his ministers.
Li Xiong's general Li Shou invaded Badong and Jianping, and the supervisor Guan Qiuao and the prefect Yang Qian retreated to Yidu.
In December, Zhang Jun surrendered to Shi Le.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the sixth year of Xianhe, Liu Zheng invaded Lou County again and plundered Wujin.
On the third day of the third year of junior high school, he was promoted to Sikong Xijian, the commander-in-chief of Wu State's military affairs.
On the 26th, because the water transportation could not be continued, more than a thousand servants below the prince were sent to transport six bushels of rice each.
On the twenty-seventh day of the first leap month, he was appointed as the governor of Youzhou, and Duan Liao was appointed as the hussar general.
On the first day of March, there was a solar eclipse.
On the 22nd, an edict was issued requiring the recommendation of virtuous and outspoken people.
April, severe drought.
On the seventh day of the sixth lunar month, the title of the former Hejian King Sima was restored. Sima Zhen, the son of Sima Hun, the king of Zhangwu, was granted the title of King Zhangwu. In July, Li Xiong's general Li Shou invaded Yinping, and Yang Nandi, the leader of the Di tribe in Wudu, surrendered to him.
On August 12, he appointed Zuo Pu to shoot Lu Wan as Shangshu Ling.
On the fifteenth day of the first month of the seventh year of Xianhe, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
In March, Xizhonglang's generals Zhao Yin and Situ Zhonglang Kuangshu captured Ma Touwu in Shile.
Shi Le's general Han Yong invaded Nansha and Haiyu.
In April, Shi Le's general Guo Jing captured Xiangyang.
In May, there was a flood.
On the third day of the seventh lunar month, all kinds of edicts on raising poultry and animals were abolished because they cost a lot of money.
Taiwei Tao Kan sent his son Tao Bin to join the army in Pingxi and Nan Zhonglang general Huan Xuan to attack Shi Le's general Guo Jing, defeating the enemy and conquering Fancheng.
Li Yang, the governor of Jingling, captured Xinye and Xiangyang and garrisoned them there.
On the first day of November, Jin appointed Taiwei Tao Kan as a general. An edict was issued to recommend virtuous people.
On December 29, the emperor moved to the new palace.
On the first day of the first lunar month in the eighth year of Xianhe, the emperor issued an edict: In the past, bandits indulged in violence and the palaces were burned down. Although the culprits had been eliminated, there was no time to build anything.
Yousi repeatedly reported that the place for court meetings was narrow, so he built this palace. The people devoted themselves to it and it was completed soon.
Now that he has moved to his residence, he holds a banquet for all the ministers, nine guests fill the palace, and all the officials are like dragons and phoenixes.
Therefore, we know that the gentleman is diligent in etiquette and the villain is doing his best.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
思蠲密纲，咸同斯惠，其赦五岁刑以下。
令诸郡举力人能举千五百斤以上者。
丙寅，李雄将李寿陷宁州，刺史尹奉及建宁太守霍彪并降之。
癸酉，以张骏为镇西大将军。
丙子，石勒遣使致赂，诏焚之。
夏四月，诏封故新蔡王弼弟邈为新蔡王。
以束帛征处士寻阳翟汤、会稽虞喜。
五月，有星陨于肥乡。
麒麟、驺虞见于辽东。
乙未，车骑将军、辽东公慕容廆卒，子皝嗣位。
六月甲辰，抚军将军王舒卒。
秋七月戊辰，石勒死，子弘嗣伪位，其将石聪以谯来降。
冬十月，石弘将石生起兵于关中，称秦州刺史，遣使来降。
石弘将石季龙攻石朗于洛阳，因进击石生，俱灭之。
十二月，石生故部将郭权遣使请降。
九年春正月，陨石于凉州二。
以郭权为镇西将军、雍州刺史。
二月丁卯，加镇西大将军张骏为大将军。
三月丁酉，会稽地震。
夏四月，石弘将石季龙使石斌攻郭权于郿，陷之。
translation: 
So I want to donate the fine legal network, enjoy this benefit together, and pardon criminals who have been imprisoned for less than five years.
Order each county to recommend strong men who can lift more than 1,500 kilograms.
On the 16th, Li Xiong's general Li Shou captured Ningzhou, and the governor Yin Feng and Jianning prefect Huo Biao surrendered.
On the 23rd, Zhang Jun was appointed as the general of Zhenxi.
On the 26th, Shi Le sent an envoy to deliver the goods and ordered them to be burned.
In April, an edict was issued to confer Sima Miao, the younger brother of the late Xincai King Sima Bi, as the Xincai King.
Two virgins, Zhai Tang from Xunyang and Yu Xi from Kuaiji, were recruited with the gift of bundles of silk.
In May, a star fell in Feixiang.
Qilin and Zouyu appeared in Liaodong.
On the third day of the lunar month, Murong Zhen, the chariot general and Duke of Liaodong, died, and his son Murong Huangguang succeeded to the throne.
On June 26, General Wang Shu of the Fu army died.
On July 21, Shi Le died, and his son Shi Hong succeeded him. His general Shi Cong surrendered.
In October, Shi Hong's general Shi Sheng raised troops in Guanzhong, was named the governor of Qinzhou, and sent envoys to surrender.
Shi Hong's general Shi Jilong attacked Shi Lang in Luoyang and took the opportunity to attack Shi Sheng, but both were destroyed.
In December, Shi Sheng's former general Guo Quan sent an envoy to request surrender.
In the first month of the ninth year of Xianhe, two meteorites fell in Liangzhou.
He appointed Guo Quan as the general of Zhenxi and the governor of Qinzhou.
On February 23, Zhang Jun, the general of Zhenxi, was granted the title of general.
On March 24, there was an earthquake in Kuaiji.
In April, Shi Hong's general Shi Jilong sent Shi Bin to attack Guo Quan of Di and captured Di.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
六月，李雄死，其兄子班嗣伪位。
乙卯，太尉、长沙公陶侃薨。
大旱，诏太官撤膳；省刑，恤孤寡，贬费节用。
辛末，加平西将军庾亮都督江、荆、豫、益、梁、雍六州诸军事。
秋八月，大雩。
自五月不雨，至于是月。
九月戊寅，散骑常侍，卫将军、江陵公陆晔卒。
冬十月，李雄子期弑李班而自立，班弟玝与其将焦会、罗凯等并来降。
十一月，石季龙弑石弘，自立为天王。
十二月丁卯，以东海王冲为车骑将军，琅邪王岳为骠骑将军。
兰陵人硃纵斩石季龙将郭祥，以彭城来降。
咸康元年春正月庚午朔，帝加元服，大赦，改元，增文武位一等，大酺三日，赐鳏寡孤独不能自存者米，人五斛。
二月甲子，帝亲释奠。
扬州诸郡饥，遣使振给。
translation: 
In June, Li Xiong died, and his brother's son Li Ban succeeded to the pseudo-throne.
On the 13th, Taiwei and Changsha Gong Tao Kan died.
There was a severe drought in the world, and the eunuchs were ordered to reduce the royal food, save criminal laws, provide support to orphans and widows, and save expenses.
On the 29th, Pingxi General Yu Liang was granted the title of Commander-in-Chief of the Military Affairs of the Six Prefectures of Jiang, Jing, Yi, Liang, and Yong.
In August, a large ceremony is held to pray for rain.
It doesn’t rain from May until this month.
On the eighth day of September, Sanqi Changshi, General Wei, and Jiangling Gong Lu Ye died.
In October, Li Xiong's son Li Qi killed Li Ban and became independent. Li Ban's younger brother Li Wangwu and his generals Jiao Kuai, Luo Kai and others came to surrender.
In November, Shi Jilong killed Shi Hong and declared himself king of heaven.
On December 28, Sima Chong, king of Donghai, was appointed as general of cavalry, and Sima Yue, king of Langya, was appointed as general of cavalry.
Zhu Zong from Lanling beheaded Shi Jilong's general Guo Xiang and led Pengcheng to surrender.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the first year of Xiankang, the emperor crowned the emperor, granted amnesty to the world, changed the reign name, increased the civil and military officials to one rank, held a banquet for three days, and gave rice and grain to the widowers and widowers who could not feed themselves, and each person received five huks of dendrobium.
On February 26, the emperor personally set up a noble to worship in front of the gods.
There was a severe famine in the counties of Yangzhou, and envoys were sent to provide relief.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
三月乙酉，幸司徒府。
夏四月癸卯，石季龙寇历阳，加司徒王导大司马、假黄钺、都督征讨诸军事，以御之。
癸丑，帝观兵于广莫门，分命诸将，遣将军刘仕救历阳，平西将军赵胤屯慈湖，龙骧将军路永戍牛渚，建武将军王允之戍芜湖。
司空郗鉴使广陵相陈光帅众卫京师，贼退向襄阳。
戊午，解严。
石季龙将石遇寇中庐，南中郎将王国退保襄阳。
秋八月，长沙、武陵大水。
束帛徵处士翟汤、郭翻。
冬十月乙未朔，日有蚀之。
是岁，大旱，会稽余姚尤甚，米斗五百价，人相卖。
二年春正月辛巳，彗星见于奎。以吴国内史虞潭为卫将军。
二月，算军用税米，空悬五十余万石，尚书谢褒巳下免官。
辛亥，立皇后杜氏，大赦，增文武位一等。
庚申，高句骊遣使贡方物。
translation: 
On March 17, the emperor visited Situ's mansion.
On the sixth day of April, Shi Jilong invaded Liyang and appointed Situ Wangdao as Grand Sima, False Huangyue, and Commander-in-Chief to conquer various military forces in order to resist the enemy.
On the 16th, the emperor paraded in front of Guangyang Gate and ordered his generals to send general Liu Shi to rescue Liyang, Pingxi general Zhao Yin to garrison Cihu, Longxiang general Lu Yong to garrison Niuzhu, and Jianwu general Wang Yunzhi to garrison Wuhu.
Sikong Xijian sent Chen Guang, Prime Minister of Guangling, to lead his troops to defend the capital. The rebels retreated and rushed back to Xiangyang.
On the 21st, martial law was lifted.
Shi Jilong's general Shi Yu invaded Zhonglu, and Nan Zhonglang retreated the kingdom to defend Xiangyang.
In August, floods occurred in Changsha and Wuling.
The officials Zhai Tang and Guo Fan were recruited with the ceremony of shedding silk.
On the first day of October, there is a solar eclipse.
This year, there was a severe drought, especially in Kuaiji and Yuyao. A liter of rice was worth 500 yuan, and people sold their wives and children to each other.
On the eighteenth day of the first lunar month of the second year of Xiankang, a comet appeared in Kuisu, and Yu Tan, the history of Wu Dynasty, was appointed as the general of the Wei.
In February, calculating the tax rice used by the army, there was a deficit of more than 500,000 shi. The minister Xie Bao and others were dismissed from office.
On the 19th, Du was made empress, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world, and all civil and military officials were given a new rank.
On the 28th, Gaoguli sent envoys to pay tribute to local products.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
三月，旱，诏太官减膳，免所旱郡县繇役。
戊寅，大雩。
夏四月丁巳，皇后见于太庙。
雨雹。
秋七月，扬州会稽饥，开仓振给。
冬十月，广州刺史邓岳遣督护王随击夜郎，新昌太守陶协击兴古，并克之。
诏曰： 历观先代，莫不褒崇明祀，宾礼三恪。
故杞宋启土，光于周典；宗姬侯卫，垂美汉册。
自顷丧乱，庶邦殄悴，周汉之后，绝而莫继。
其祥求卫公、山阳公近属，有履行修明，可以继承其祀者，依旧典施行。
新作硃雀浮桁。
十一月，遣建威将军司马勋安集汉中，为李期将李寿所败。
三年春正月辛卯，立太学。
夏六月，旱。
冬十一月丁卯，慕容皝自立为燕王。
translation: 
In March, there was a severe drought, and the eunuchs were ordered to reduce the royal meal and exempt the counties affected by the drought from corvee service.
On the 16th, a large ceremony was held to pray for rain.
On April 26, the empress paid homage to her at the Imperial Ancestral Temple.
Hail.
In July, there was a severe famine in Yangzhou and Kuaiji, and the government opened warehouses to provide relief.
In October, Deng Yue, the governor of Guangzhou, sent the governor Wang Sui to attack Yelang, and Tao Xie, the prefect of Xinchang, attacked Xinggu and captured them both.
The edict said: Looking at the past dynasties, there is no one who does not praise and praise the important sacrifices and treat the descendants of the three dynasties of the previous dynasties with courtesy.
Therefore, the descendants of Xia, Yu and Shang Zhou were named Qi and Song, and were honored in the Zhou Dynasty books; the descendants of the Zhou royal family were named Weihou and will forever be remembered in the history of the Han Dynasty.
Recently, due to chaos and chaos, all the states have suffered, and the descendants of the Zhou and Han dynasties have been extinct and have no one to inherit them.
We should carefully search for the close relatives of Duke Wei and Duke Shanyang. If there is anyone who can practice integrity and cultivate virtue, and can inherit the ancestral sacrifice, the old code will be implemented.
A newly constructed pontoon built in Suzaku.
In November, he sent Jianwei general Sima Xun to settle in Hanzhong, but was defeated by Li Qi's general Li Shou.
On the fourth day of the first lunar month of the third year of Xiankang, Taixue was established.
June, drought.
On October 14, Murong Huangguang proclaimed himself King of Yan.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
四年春二月，石季龙帅众七万，击段辽于辽西，辽奔于平岗。
夏四月，李寿弑李期。僭即伪位，国号汉。
石季龙为慕容皝所败，癸丑，加皝征北大将军。
五月乙未，以司徒王导为太傅、都督中外诸军事，司空郗鉴为太尉，征西将军庾亮为司空。
六月，改司徒为丞相，以太傅王导为之。
秋八月丙午，分宁州置安州。
五年春正月辛丑，大赦。
三月乙丑，广州刺史邓岳伐蜀，建宁人孟彦执李寿将霍彪以降。
夏四月辛未，征西将军庾亮遣参军赵松击巴郡、江阳，获石季龙将李闳、黄桓等。
秋七月庚申，使持节、侍中、丞相、领扬州刺史、始兴公王导薨。
辛酉，以护军将军何充录尚书事。
八月壬午，复改丞相为司徒。
辛酉，太尉、南昌公郗鉴薨。
九月，石季龙将夔安、李农陷沔南，张貉陷邾城，因寇江夏、义阳，征虏将军毛宝、西阳太守樊俊、义阳太守郑进并死之。
夔安等进围石城，竟陵太守李阳距战，破之，斩首五千余级。
安乃退，遂略汉东，拥七千余家迁于幽冀。
冬十二月丙戌，以骠骑将军、琅邪王岳为司徒。
李寿将李奕寇巴东，守将劳扬战败，死之。
六年春正月庚子，使持节、都督江豫益梁雍交广七州诸军事、司空、都亭侯庾亮薨。
辛亥，以左光禄大夫陆玩为司空。
二月，慕容皝及石季龙将石成战于辽西，败之，献捷于京师。
庚辰，有星孛于太微。
三月丁卯，大赦。
以车骑将军、东海王冲为骠骑将军。
李寿陷丹川，守将孟彦、刘齐、李秋皆死之。
translation: 
In February of the fourth year of Xiankang, Shi Jilong led 70,000 troops to attack Duan Liao in western Liaoning. Duan Liao fled to Pinggang.
In April, Li Shou killed Li Qi, assumed the false throne, and established the country as Han.
Shi Jilong was defeated by Murong Huangguang. On the third day of the third year of junior high school, he was awarded the title of General of the Northern Conquest.
On May 16th, Situ Wangdao was appointed as Taifu, and he was in charge of all military affairs inside and outside the court. Sikong Xijian was appointed as Taiwei, and Yu Liang, the general of the Western Expedition, was appointed as Sikong.
In June, the position of Situ was changed to Prime Minister, and Taifu Wang Dao was appointed.
On July 28, Anzhou was divided from Ningzhou.
On the twenty-fifth day of the first month of the fifth year of Xiankang, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
On February 20th, Deng Yue, the governor of Guangzhou, attacked Shu. Meng Yan from Jianning captured Li Shou's general Huo Biao and surrendered.
On April 27, Yu Liang, the general who conquered the west, sent Zhao Song to attack Bajun and Jiangyang, and captured Shi Jilong's generals Li Hong, Huang Zhi and others.
On July 18th, the envoys Chijie, Shizhong, Prime Minister, the governor of Yangzhou, and Prince Shixing died.
On the 19th, He Chong, the general of the army guard, was appointed as the minister.
On the tenth day of August, the prime minister was renamed Situ.
One day, Xi Jian, the Duke of Nanchang, died.
In September, Shi Jilong's generals Kui'an and Li Nong captured Miannan, Zhang Raccoon captured Zhu City, and took advantage of the situation to invade Jiangxia and Yiyang. General Mao Bao, the governor of Xiyang, Fan Jun, and the governor of Yiyang Zheng Jin all died in the battle.
Kui'an and others then besieged Shicheng. Li Yang, the governor of Jingling, resisted the enemy and defeated the enemy, beheading more than 5,000 people.
After Kui'an retreated, he invaded Handong and captured more than 7,000 people and moved them to Youzhou and Jizhou.
On December 16, he appointed Sima Yue, General of Hussars and King of Ya of Lang, as Situ.
Li Shou's generals invaded Badong, and the guard general Lao Yang was defeated and died.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the sixth year of Xiankang, the envoy Chijie, the governor of Jiang, Yu, Yi, Liang, Yong, Jiao, and Guang seven prefectures, Sikong, and Dutinghou Yu Liang died.
On the 12th, Dr. Zuo Guanglu, Lu Wan, was appointed Sikong.
In February, Murong Huangguang fought with Shi Jilong's general Shi Cheng in western Liaoning, defeated Shi Cheng, and reported victory to the capital.
On the 11th, a comet appeared in the constellation Taiwei.
On March 29th, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
Sima Chong, the Chariot General and King of the East China Sea, was appointed as the Hussar General.
Li Shou captured Danchuan, and the defenders Meng Yan, Liu Qi, and Li Qiu were all killed in battle.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
秋七月乙卯，初依中兴故事，朔望听政于东堂。
冬十月，林邑献驯象。
十一月癸卯，复琅邪，比汉丰沛。
七年春二月甲子朔，日有蚀之，己卯，慕容皝遣使求假燕王章玺，许之。
三月戊戌，杜皇后崩。
夏四月丁卯。葬恭皇后于兴平陵。
实编户，王公已下皆正土断白籍。
秋八月辛酉，骠骑将军、东海王冲薨。
九月，罢太仆官。
冬十二月癸酉，司空、兴平伯陆玩薨。
除乐府杂伎。
罢安州。
八年春正月己未朔，日有蚀之。乙丑，大赦。
三月，初以武悼杨皇后配飨武帝庙。
夏六月庚寅，帝不豫，诏曰： 朕以眇年，获嗣洪绪，托于王公之上，于兹十有八年。
未能阐融政道。翦除逋昆，夙夜战兢，匪遑宁处。
translation: 
On July 18, according to the old system of ZTE, political affairs were heard in the east hall on the first and fifteenth day of the lunar month.
In October, Linyi presented tame elephants.
On the seventh day of the eleventh month, Langwangya County is exempted from taxes and corvee, which is the same as Feng and Pei in the Han Dynasty.
On the first day of February in the seventh year of Xiankang, there was a solar eclipse. On the 16th, Murong Huangguang sent an envoy to request the seal and jade seal of King Yan, and was agreed.
On the fifth day of March, Queen Du died.
On the fifth day of April, Queen Gong was buried in Xingping Mausoleum.
To verify the registered household population, all overseas residents below the prince level are registered in the county where they live and are specially registered.
On the first day of August, Sima Chong, the hussar general and king of the East China Sea, died.
In September, he was dismissed from his official post.
On December 14th, Sikong and Earl Lu Wan of Xingping died.
Waste Yuefu miscellaneous actors.
Abolish Anzhou.
On the first day of the first lunar month in the eighth year of Xiankang, there was a solar eclipse. On the seventh day of the lunar month, there is a general amnesty for the whole world.
In March, Empress Yang began to be mourned with martial arts and she was allowed to enjoy the Temple of Emperor Wu.
On the fifth day of the sixth lunar month, the emperor felt unwell and issued an edict: I have inherited the great cause since my childhood and have been entrusted to the princes for eighteen years now.
He failed to establish a harmonious political system and eliminate disasters. He was wary day and night and had no time to live in peace.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
今遘疾殆不兴，是用震悼于厥心。
千龄眇眇，未堪艰难。
司徒、琅邪王岳，亲则母弟，体则仁长，君人之风，允塞时望。
肆尔王公卿士，其辅之！
以祗奉祖宗明祀，协和内外，允执其中。
呜呼，敬之哉！
无坠祖宗之显命。
壬辰，引武陵王晞、会稽王昱、中书监庾冰、中书令何充、尚书令诸葛恢并受顾命。
癸巳，帝崩于西堂，时年二十二，葬兴平陵，庙号显宗。
帝少而聪敏，有成人之量。
南顿王宗之诛也，帝不之知，及苏峻平，问庾亮曰： 常日白头公何在？
亮对以谋反伏诛，帝泣谓亮曰： 舅言人作贼，便杀之，人言舅作贼，复若何？
亮惧，变色。
translation: 
Now that I am suffering from an illness, I may not be able to recover, so I am very frightened and sad.
A thousand years is so far away that I cannot bear its hardships.
Situ, King Langya and King Sima Yue were brothers from the same mother according to their close relationship. They were benevolent and virtuous, and they had the style of a human king and enjoyed great prestige at that time.
All you princes and ministers, please assist him!
In order to worship the ancestors, both inside and outside the Xiehe court, his words and deeds are in line with the principles of justice.
well! Be respectful!
Don't destroy the beautiful order of your ancestors.
On the sixth day of the lunar month, Sima Xi, the king of Wuling, Sima Yu, the king of Kuaiji, Yu Bing, the eunuch of the Zhongshu, He Chong, the Ling of the Zhongshu, and Zhuge Hui, the minister of the Shangshu, all accepted the decree.
On the seventh day of the lunar month, the emperor died in the West Hall at the age of twenty-two. He was buried in the Xingping Mausoleum, and the temple name was pronounced.
Emperor Cheng was smart when he was young and had the capacity of an adult.
When Sima Zong, the king of Nanton, was executed, Emperor Cheng didn't know. After Su Jun's rebellion subsided, Emperor Cheng asked Yu Liang: Where is the old white-headed man?
Yu Liang replied that he was killed for treason. Emperor Cheng cried to Yu Liang and said: If my uncle accuses someone of being a thief, he will kill him. What should he do if someone else accuses him of being a thief?
Yu Liang was so scared that his face changed color.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
庾怿尝送酒于江州刺史王允之，允之与犬，犬毙，惧而表之。
帝怒曰： 大舅已乱天下，小舅复欲尔邪？
怿闻，饮药而死。
然少为舅氏所制，不亲庶政。
及长，颇留心万机，务在简约，常欲于后园作射堂，计用四十金，以劳费乃止。
雄武之度，虽有愧于前王；恭俭之德，足追踪于住烈矣。
康皇帝讳岳，字世同，成帝母弟也。
咸和元年封吴王，二年徙封琅邪王；九年拜散骑常侍，加骠骑将军，咸康五年迁侍中、司徒。
八年六月庚寅，成帝不豫，诏以琅邪王为嗣。
癸巳，成帝崩。
甲午，即皇帝位，大赦。
诸屯戍文武及二千石官长，不得辄离所局而来奔赴。
translation: 
Yu Yi once sent wine to Wang Yunzhi, the governor of Jiangzhou, and allowed him to feed a dog. The dog was poisoned to death, and his fear was expressed on the ground.
Emperor Cheng said angrily: "My uncle has brought trouble to the world, what about my younger uncle?"
After hearing this, Yu Yi drank the medicine and died.
However, he was restricted by his uncle when he was young and could not personally handle various political affairs.
When I got older, I paid close attention to national affairs and strived to be simple. I once wanted to build a shooting hall in the back garden. I calculated that it would cost forty gold, but I stopped because it was a waste of money.
Although Emperor Cheng's majestic and mighty weapons were not as good as those of previous emperors, his virtues of respect and frugality were enough to track the heroes of previous generations.
Emperor Kang, whose name was Sima Yue and whose courtesy name was Shitong, was the younger brother of Emperor Cheng.
In the first year of Xianhe, he was granted the title of King of Wu, and in the second year of his reign, he was posthumously named King of Langxie; Jiuwei was appointed as a regular servant of Sanqi, plus a general of Hussar; in the fifth year of Xiankang, he was promoted to Shizhong and Situ.
In the sixth month of the eighth year of Geng Yin, Emperor Cheng became unwell and issued an edict to name King Langxie as his successor.
Guiji, Emperor Cheng died.
In the Jiawu period, Emperor Kang ascended the throne and ruled the world.
Fangwu generals and local county governors stationed in various places are not allowed to leave their posts without authorization and come to attend the funeral.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
己亥，封成帝子丕为琅邪王，奕为东海王。
时帝谅阴不言，委政于庾冰、何充。
秋七月丙辰，葬成皇帝于兴平陵。
帝亲奉奠于西阶，既发引，徒行至阊阖门，升素舆，至于陵所。
己未，以中书令何充为骠骑将军。
八月辛丑，彭城王纮薨。
以江州刺史王允之为卫将军。
九月，诏琅邪国及府史进位各有差。
冬十月甲午，卫将军王允之卒。
十二月，增文武位二等。
壬子，立皇后褚氏。
建元元年春正月，改元，振恤鳏寡孤独。
三月，以中书监庾冰为车骑将军。
夏四月，益州刺史周抚、西阳太守曹据伐李寿，败其将恆于江阳。
五月，旱。
六月壬午，又以束帛征处士寻阳翟汤、会稽虞喜。
有司奏，成帝崩一周，请改素服，御进膳如旧。
translation: 
At the end of the year, Sima Pi, the son of Emperor Cheng, was named the King of Langxie, and Ma Mayi was named the King of the East China Sea.
At that time, Emperor Kangxi was in mourning and could not say much, so he entrusted Yu Bing and He Chong to handle government affairs.
On Bingchen in the seventh month of autumn, Emperor Cheng was buried in Xingping Mausoleum.
Emperor Kang personally paid homage in the west. After the hearse set off, Emperor Kang walked to Changhemen, boarded the plain carriage, and went to the cemetery.
Not long ago, Zhongshu ordered He Chong to be the hussar general.
In the eighth month of Xinchou, Sima Hong, the king of Pengcheng, passed away.
Wang Yunzhi, the governor of Jiangzhou, was appointed as the general of the Wei.
In September, the imperial edict was issued to the officials of Langye Kingdom and the government to increase their official positions and have different levels.
In the winter of October during the Sino-Japanese War, General Wang Yunzhi passed away.
In December, the rank of civil and military generals was increased to the second level.
Renzi made Chu the queen.
In the first month of spring of the first year of Jianyuan, the year name was changed to help the widows and widowers.
In March, Yu Bing, the supervisor of Zhongshu, was appointed as the general of chariots and cavalry.
In April of summer, Zhou Fu, the governor of Yizhou, and Cao Ju, the prefect of Xiyang, attacked Li Shou and defeated Li Shou's general Li Heng in Jiangyang.
In May, there was a drought.
On the day of Renwu in the sixth month, he summoned Zhai Tang from Xunyang and Yu Xi from Kuaiji with a bundle of silk as a gift.
Relevant departments have reported that it has been a week since the death of Emperor Cheng. Please change to plain clothes and eat in the palace as usual.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
壬寅，诏曰： 礼之降杀，因时而寝兴，诚无常矣。
至于君亲相准，名教之重，莫之改也。
权制之作，盖出近代，虽曰适事，实弊薄之始。
先王崇之，后世犹怠，而况因循，又从轻降，义弗可矣。
石季龙帅众伐慕容皝，皝大败之。
秋七月，石季龙将戴开帅众来降。
丁巳，诏曰： 慕容皝摧殄羯寇，乃云死没八万余人，将是其天亡之始也。
中原之事，宜加筹量。
且戴开已帅部党归顺，宜见慰劳。
其遣使诣安西、骠骑，咨谋诸军事。
以辅国将军、琅邪内史桓温为前锋小督、假节，帅众入临淮，安西将军庾翼为征讨大都督，迁镇襄阳。
庚申，晋陵、吴郡灾。
八月，李寿死，子势嗣伪位。
石季龙使其将刘宁攻陷狄道。
translation: 
Renyin, the imperial edict stated: The reduction and decrease of etiquette are due to the times, and there is no routine.
As for the rules that the monarch abides by, they are the core of ethics and ethics, and no one can change them.
The expedient system probably came from modern times. Although it is suitable, it is actually the beginning of contempt and corruption of ethics.
Later generations still slacked off on things that the previous kings respected, let alone follow the old tradition and take it lightly. This is not allowed by ethics.
Shi Jilong led his soldiers to attack Murong Huang, but Murong Huang defeated them.
In the seventh month of autumn, Shi Jilong's general Dai Kaishuai came to surrender.
Ding Si issued an edict: Murong Huang destroyed the Jie Kou and claimed that more than 80,000 people died. This was probably the first sign of the demise of the clan.
Things in the Central Plains should be planned more carefully.
Furthermore, Dai Kai led his men to submit and was comforted.
Please send someone to General Anxi and General Hussar to discuss military affairs.
With Huan Wen, the general of Fuguo and the internal history of Langye, as the forward commander and deputy governor, Jiajie, he led the soldiers into Linhuai. General Yu Yi of Anxi was appointed as the chief governor of the expedition and moved to Xiangyang.
Gengshen, Jinling and Wujun suffered famine.
In August, Li Shou died, and his son Li Shi succeeded him.
Shi Jilong sent his general Liu Ning to capture Didao.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
冬十月辛巳，以车骑将军庾冰都督荆江司雍益梁六州诸军事、江州刺史，以骠骑将军何充为中书监、都督扬豫二州诸军事、扬州刺史、录尚书事，辅政。
以琅邪内史桓温都督青徐兗三州诸军事、徐州刺史，褚裒为卫将军、领中书令。
十一月己巳，大赦。
十二月，石季龙侵张骏，骏使其将军谢艾拒之，大战于河西，季龙败绩。
十二月，高句骊遣使朝献。
二年春正月，张骏遣其将和驎、谢艾讨南羌于阗和，大破之。
二月，慕容皝及鲜卑帅宇文归战于昌黎，归众大败，奔于漠北。
四月，张骏将张瓘败石季龙将王擢于三交城。
秋八月丙子，进安西将军庾翼为征西将军。
庚辰，持节、都督司雍梁三州诸军事、梁州刺史、平北将军、竟陵公桓宣卒。
丁巳，以卫将军褚裒为特进、都督徐兗二州诸军事、兗州刺史，镇金城。
九月，巴东太守杨谦击李势将申阳，走之，获其将乐高。
丙申，立皇子聃为皇太子。
戊戌，帝崩于式乾殿。
时年二十三，葬崇平陵。
初，成帝有疾，中书令庾冰自以舅氏当朝，权侔人主，恐异世之后，戚属将疏，乃言国有强敌，宜立长君，遂以帝为嗣。
制度年号，再兴中朝，因改元曰建元。
或谓冰曰： 郭璞谶云 立始之际丘山倾 ，立者，建也；始者，元也；丘山，讳也。
冰瞿然，既而叹曰： 如有吉凶，岂改易所能救乎？
translation: 
In the tenth month of winter, Xinsi, the chariot general Yu Bing was appointed to oversee the military affairs of Jing, Jiang, Si, Yong, Yi and Liang prefectures, and the governor of Jiangzhou. He was appointed the general of the cavalry, He Chong, as the Superintendent of Zhongshu, the governor of the military affairs of Yangzhou and Henan prefectures, the governor of Yangzhou, and the secretary-general of Lu to assist in the administration.
Huan Wen, the internal historian of Langye, was appointed governor of the military affairs of Qing, Xu and Yanzhou, and governor of Xuzhou. Chu Pei was appointed general of Wei and Zhongshu Ling.
In November, there is a general amnesty.
In December, Shi Jilong invaded Zhang Jun. Zhang Jun sent his general Xie Ai to resist, and there was a fierce battle in Hexi. Jilong was defeated.
In December, Gaogouli sent envoys to pay tribute.
In the first month of the spring of the second year, Zhang Jun sent his generals Hezuo and Xie Ai to Khotan to attack the Southern Qiang and achieved a great victory.
In February, Murong Huang fought with Yuwen Gui, the leader of the Xianbei commander, in Changli. Yuwen Gui's troops were defeated and fled to the north of the desert.
In April, Zhang Jun's general Zhang Guan defeated Shi Jilong's general Wang Tuo in Sanjiao City.
In the eighth month of Autumn, Yu Yi was promoted to General of Anxi and became General of the Expedition to the West.
In Gengchen, Chijie, Dudusi, the military officers of Yongzhou and Liangzhou, Liangzhou governor, Pingbei general, and Jinglinggong Huanxuan died.
In the intercalary eighth month, Dingsi, General Chu Pei of the Guard was appointed as the special advancer, and the commander-in-chief Xu, the military officers of Yanzhou and Yanzhou, and the governor of Yanzhou were stationed in Jincheng.
In September, Badong Governor Yang Qian attacked Li Shi and Li Shi's general Shen Yang. Li Shi's army was defeated and fled, and his general Le Gao was captured.
In Bingshen, Prince Sima Dan was made the crown prince.
In the Wuxu period, Emperor Kangdi died in Shiqian Hall.
He was twenty-three years old and was buried in Chongping Mausoleum.
At the beginning, Emperor Cheng was ill, and Zhongshu ordered Yu Bing to assume power as his maternal uncle, whose power was equal to that of the emperor. He was worried that after the change of dynasty, relatives would be alienated, so he said that the country was facing a powerful enemy and an older monarch should be appointed, so he named Emperor Kang as his successor.
He wanted to change the reign name to rejuvenate the country, so he changed the reign name to Jianyuan.
Someone said to Geng Bing: Guo Pu's prophecy predicts that at the beginning of the founding, the hills and mountains will fall, and the standing will be the building; the beginning will be the Yuan; the hills and mountains will be the name.
Geng Bing was surprised, and then sighed: If there is good or bad luck, how can it be saved by changing the year name?


Chunk 20: 
original: 
至是果验云。
史臣曰：肆虐滔天，岂伊朝夕。
若乃详刑不怨，庶情犹仰，又可以见逆顺之机焉。
成帝因削弱之资，守江淮之地，政出渭阳，声乖威服。
凶徒既纵，神器阽危，京华元敖之资，宫室类咸阳之火。
桀犬吠尧。封狐嗣乱，方诸后羿，曷若斯之甚也。
反我皇驾，不有晋文之师，系于苞桑，且赖陶公之力。
古之侯服，不幸臣家，天子宣游，则避宫北面，闻诸遗策，用为恆范。
显宗于王导之门，敛衣前拜，岂鲁公受玉之卑乎！
帝亦克俭于躬，庶能激扬流弊者也。赞曰：惟皇夙表，余舅为毗。
勤于致寇，拙于行师。
火及君屋，兵缠帝帷。
石头之驾，海内含悲。
康后天资，居哀礼缛。
坠典方兴，降龄奚促。
translation: 
So far it has come true.
Shi Chen said: How can it be raging to the sky day and night?
If one is cautious and no one resents one, and everyone still respects one, one can also see the importance of disobedience.
Emperor Cheng relied on his weakened strength to guard the Jianghuai area. The decree came from his uncle's family, so he could not use force to overwhelm the country.
The gangsters were running wild, the country was in danger, the capital did not have the wealth of Ao Yu, and the palace was destroyed by a fire like Xianyang.
Jie dogs barked at Yao, and evil men were like foxes causing chaos. Compared with Hou Yi's time, it was not so bad at that time.
When the emperor returned, there was no army like Jin Wen, so the dynasty was deeply entrenched and had to rely on the power of Tao Gong.
In ancient times, when princes did not visit their ministers' homes and the emperor traveled far and wide, they would avoid sitting on the north side of the main hall and follow the strategies left by their predecessors to serve as a long-lasting example.
To display one's ancestral line under Wang Dao's family, to dress up and bow before him, wouldn't he be as humble as Lu Gong receiving jade?
Only if the emperor can practice frugality can he rectify the current problems. Zan said: The emperor often said that my uncle is my assistant.
He is diligent in attracting bandits, but clumsy in launching a counterattack.
The fire spread to the palace, and the war threatened the throne.
Emperor Shitou died, and the whole country was filled with compassion.
Emperor Kang relied on heaven's help, and when he was in mourning, he used extravagant rituals.
The career will be revived, but it is so hasty to die.


