Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 3, 5, 16]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
成皇帝讳衍，字世根，明帝长子也。
太宁三年三月戊辰，立为皇太子。
闰月戊子，明帝崩。
己丑，太子即皇帝位，大赦，增文武位二等，赐鳏寡孤老帛，人二匹，尊皇后庾氏为皇太后。
秋九月癸卯，皇太后临朝称制。
司徒王导录尚书事，与中书令庾亮参辅朝政。
以抚军将军、南顿王宗为骠骑将军，领军将军、汝南王祐为卫将军。
辛丑，葬明帝于武平陵。
冬十一月癸巳朔，日有蚀之。广陵相曹浑有罪，下狱死。
咸和元年春二月丁亥，大赦，改元，大酺五日，赐鳏寡孤老米，二人斛，京师百里内复一年。
夏四月，石勒遣其将石生寇汝南，汝南人执内史祖济以叛。
甲子，尚书左仆射邓攸卒。
五月，大水。
translation: 
Emperor Cheng's name was Sima Yan, whose courtesy name was Shigen. He was the eldest son of Emperor Ming Sima Shao.
On the second day of March in the third year of Taining, he was established as the crown prince.
On the twenty-fifth day of the eighth month, Emperor Ming died.
On the 26th, the prince became emperor, granted a general amnesty to the world, increased the title of civil and military officials to the second level, gave widows, widowers, orphans and old people two pieces of cloth each, and honored the queen Yu as the empress dowager.
On the ninth day of September, the Empress Dowager came to the court to act as the emperor.
Situ Wang directed the affairs of the ministers and participated in the affairs of the court together with Zhongshu Ling Yu Liang.
He appointed Sima Zong, the general of the Fu army and King of Nanton, as the hussar general, and the leading general, Sima Wei, the king of Runan.
On the 11th, Emperor Ming was buried in Wuping Mausoleum.
On the first day of November, there is a solar eclipse. Cao Hun, the prime minister of Guangling, was guilty and was imprisoned and died.
On the twenty-seventh day of the second month of the second month in the first year of Xianhe, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country, and the new year's title was adopted. A banquet was held for five days. The widows, widows and orphans were given old rice and grain, two huks per person, and the corvée tax was exempted for one year within a hundred miles of the capital.
In April, Shi Le sent his general Shi Sheng to invade Runan, and the Runan people seized Neishi Zuji and rebelled.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, Shangshu Zuopu shot Deng You to death.
In May, there was a flood.

summary:
summary line 0: Emperor Cheng, named Sima Yan (courtesy name Shigen), was the eldest son of Emperor Ming. He was established as crown prince in the third year of Taining and became emperor following his father's death. He honored Queen Yu as Empress Dowager, who acted as regent. Situ Wang directed ministers' affairs alongside Zhongshu Ling Yu Liang. During his reign, the empire faced numerous challenges including solar eclipses, floods, droughts, famines, and rebellions.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
六月癸亥，使持节、散骑常侍、监淮北诸军事、北中郎将、徐州刺史、泉陵公刘遐卒。
癸酉，以车骑将军郗鉴领徐州刺史，征虏将军郭默为北中郎将、假节、监淮北诸军。
刘遐部曲将李龙、史迭奉遐子肇代遐位以距默，临淮太守刘矫击破之，斩龙，传首京师。
秋七月癸丑，使持节、都督江州诸军事、江州刺史、平南将军、观阳伯应詹卒。
八月，以给事中、前将军、丹阳尹温峤为平南将军、假节、都督，江州刺史。
九月，旱。
李雄将张龙寇涪陵，执太守谢俊。
冬十月，封魏武帝玄孙曹励为陈留王，以绍魏。
丙寅，卫将军、汝南王祐薨。
己巳，封皇弟岳为吴王。
车骑将军、南顿王宗有罪，伏诛，贬其族为马氏。
免太宰、西阳王羕，降为弋阳县王。
庚辰，赦百里内五岁以下刑。
是月，刘曜将黄秀、帛成寇酂，平北将军魏该帅众奔襄阳。
translation: 
On the fifth day of the sixth lunar month, Liu Xia, the envoy Chijie, Sanqi Changshi, supervisor of Huaibei military affairs, Beizhong Langjiang, Xuzhou governor, and Quanling Gong Liu Xia died.
On the 15th, Xi Jian, the chariot and cavalry general, led the governor of Xuzhou, and Guo Mo, the conscript general, was appointed as Beizhonglang general to supervise all the armies in Huaibei.
Liu Xia's generals Li Long and Shi Die supported Liu Xia's son Liu Zhao to replace Liu Xia in order to resist Guo Mo. Liu Jiao, the prefect of Linhuai, defeated them, beheaded Li Long, and sent his head to the capital.
On July 25th, the envoy Chijie, the military commander of Jiangzhou, the governor of Jiangzhou, General Pingnan, and the Marquis of Guanyang County Yingzhan died.
In August, Yi Shizhong, the former general, Danyang Yin Wenqiao was appointed as the general of Pingnan, the governor of Jijie, and the governor of Jiangzhou.
September, severe drought.
Li Xiong's general Zhang Long invaded Fuling and captured the prefect Xie Jun.
In October, Cao Mai, the great-great-grandson of Emperor Wu of Wei, was granted the title of King Chenliu to inherit the Wei state.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, General Wei and King Sima of Runan died.
On the 13th, Sima Yue, the emperor's younger brother, was granted the title of King of Wu.
Sima Zong, the cavalry general and king of Nanton, was found guilty and executed. His family was demoted to the Ma family.
He deposed Dazai and Sima, King of Xiyang, and demoted him to King of Yiyang County.
24. Amnesty for those sentenced to imprisonment of not more than five years within a hundred miles of the capital.
This month, Liu Yao's generals Huang Xiu and Bo Cheng invaded the Zanli territory, and Pingbei general Wei Gai led his troops to Xiangyang.

summary:
summary line 1: The Xianhe era began with a general amnesty and tax exemptions. Shi Le's forces repeatedly invaded, with generals like Shi Sheng attacking Runan. Internal rebellions erupted, including Liu Xia's generals supporting his son Liu Zhao to resist Guo Mo. Various military officials died or were appointed to new positions. The period saw severe droughts, earthquakes, and the execution of Sima Zong, King of Nanton, for guilt. Liu Yao's generals invaded Zanli territory, while Shi Le's general Shi Cong attacked Shouyang unsuccessfully.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
十二月辛亥，苏峻使其将韩晃入姑孰，屠于湖。
壬子，彭城王雄、章武王休叛，奔峻。
庚申，京师戒严。
假护军将军庾亮节为征讨都督，以右卫将军赵胤为冠军将军、历阳太守，使与左将军司马流帅师距峻，战于慈湖，流败，死之。
假骁骑将军钟雅节，帅舟军，与赵胤为前锋，以距峻。
丙寅，徒封琅邪王昱为会稽王，吴王岳为琅邪王。
辛未，宣城内桓彝及峻战于芜湖，彝军败绩。
军骑将军郗鉴遣广陵相刘矩帅师赴京师。
三年春正月，平南将军温峤帅师救京师，次于寻阳，遣督护王愆期、西阳太守邓岳、鄱阳太守纪睦为前锋。
征西大将军陶侃遣督护龚登受峤节度。
钟雅、赵胤等次慈湖，王愆期、邓岳等次直渎。
丁未，峻济自横江，登牛渚。
二月庚戌，峻至于蒋山。
假领军将军卞壸节，帅六军，及峻战于西陵，王师败绩。
丙辰，峻攻青溪栅，因风纵火，王师又大败。
尚书令、领军将军卞壸，丹阳尹羊曼，黄门侍郎周导，庐江太守陶瞻并遇害，死者数千人。
庾亮又败于宣阳门内，遂携其诸弟与郭默、赵胤奔寻阳。
于是司徒王导、右光禄大夫陆晔、荀崧等卫帝于太极殿，太常孔愉守宗庙。
贼乘胜麾戈接于帝座，突入太后后宫，左右侍人皆见掠夺。
是时太官唯有烧余米数石，以供御膳。
translation: 
On the first day of December, Su Jun sent his generals into Gushu to massacre Yuhu.
On the second day of the lunar month, Sima Xiong, king of Pengcheng, and Sima Xiu, king of Zhangwu, rebelled and defected to Su Jun.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, the capital was under martial law.
He appointed the guard general Yu Liang as the governor of the expedition during the holidays, and appointed the right guard general Zhao Yin as the champion general and Liyang governor. They and the left general Sima Liu led their troops to resist Su Jun, and fought at Cihu. Sima Liu was defeated and died.
Ren Xiaoqi General Zhong Ya took the holiday and led the navy with Zhao Yin as the vanguard to resist Su Jun.
On the 16th, Sima Yu, the king of Langya, was moved to be the king of Kuaiji, and Sima Yue, the king of Wu, was named the king of Langya.
On the 21st, Huan Yi and Su Jun fought in Wuhu, and Huan Yi's army was defeated.
Chariot and Cavalry General Xi Jian sent Guangling Prime Minister Liu Ju to lead his troops to the capital.
In the first month of the third year of Xianhe's reign, Pingnan General Wen Qiao led his troops to rescue the capital and stationed in Xunyang. He sent the governor Wang Suqi, the governor of Xiyang Deng Yue, and the governor of Poyang Ji Mu as the vanguard.
Tao Kan, the general who conquered the west, sent the governor Gong Deng to accept the control of Wenqiao Jiedu.
Zhong Ya, Zhao Yin and others were stationed in Cihu, while Wang Suqi, Deng Yue and others were stationed in Zhidu.
On the 28th, Su Jun crossed the Hengjiang River and boarded Niuzhu.
On the first day of February, Su Jun arrived at Jiangshan.
The imperial court appointed the leading general Sima You, King of Runan, as the general of the guard. Bian Hujie led the six armies and fought with Su Jun in Xiling. The king's army was defeated.
On the seventh day of the lunar month, Su Jun attacked Qingxizha and set fire to it. Wang's army was defeated again.
Bian Hu, the leading general of Shangshu Ling, Yin Yangman of Danyang, Zhou Dao, the minister of Huangmen, and Tao Zhan, the prefect of Lujiang, were all killed. Thousands of people died.
Yu Liang failed again at Xuanyang Gate, so he took his younger brother, Guo Mo, and Zhao Yin and fled to Xunyang.
So Situ Wangdao, Youguanglu doctor Lu Ye, Xun Song and others guarded the emperor in the Taiji Hall, and the prefect Kong Yu guarded the ancestral temple.
Taking advantage of the victory, Su Jun and other thieves approached the imperial palace and broke into the Queen Mother's harem. All the attendants on the left and right were plundered.
At this time, the eunuch could only use the remaining few stones of rice to cook rice for the royal family.

summary:
summary line 2: The rebellion of Zu Yue and Su Jun in the second year of Xianhe proved devastating. Su Jun's forces massacred Yuhu, and multiple kings defected to him. The capital was placed under martial law. Yu Liang and others fought Su Jun at Cihu, suffering defeat. The following year, Su Jun crossed the Hengjiang River, attacked the capital, and burned Qingxizha. Many officials were killed, and Yu Liang fled to Xunyang. Su Jun forced the emperor to move to Stone City, causing great suffering. Empress Dowager Yu died during this turmoil.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
峻轻骑出战，坠马，斩之，众遂大溃。
贼党复立峻弟逸为帅。
前交州刺史张琏据始兴反，进攻广州，镇南司马曾勰等击破之。
冬十月，李雄将张龙寇涪陵，太守赵弼没于贼。
十二月乙未，石勒败刘曜于洛阳，获之。
是岁，石勒将石季龙攻氐帅蒲洪于陇山，降之。
四年春正月，帝在石头，贼将匡术以苑城归顺，百官赴焉。
侍中钟雅、右卫将军刘超谋奉帝出，为贼所害。
戊辰，冠军将军赵胤遣将甘苗讨祖约于历阳，败之，约奔于石勒，其将牵腾帅众降。
峻子硕攻台城，又焚太极东堂、秘阁，皆尽。
城中大饥，米斗万钱。
二月，大雨霖。
丙戌，诸军攻石头。
李阳与苏逸战于柤浦，阳军败。
建威长史滕含以锐卒击之，逸等大败。
含奉帝御于温峤舟，群臣顿首号泣请罪。
弋阳王羕有罪，伏诛。
translation: 
Su Jun led his light cavalry into battle, fell off his horse and was beheaded, causing his troops to disperse.
The bandits appointed Su Jun's younger brother Su Yi as their leader.
Zhang Lian, the former governor of Jiaozhou, occupied Shixing and rebelled, attacking Guangzhou. Zhennan Sima Zeng Xie and others defeated him.
In October, Li Xiong's general Zhang Long invaded Fuling, and the prefect Zhao Bi was killed by the thieves.
On December 21, Shi Le defeated Liu Yao in Luoyang and captured him alive.
This year, Shi Le's general Shi Jilong attacked the Di leader Pu Hong in Longshan, and Pu Hong surrendered.
In the first month of the fourth year of Xianhe's reign, the emperor was in Shitucheng. The bandit general Kuangshu surrendered to Xianyuan City, and all the officials rushed there.
Attendant Zhong Ya and right guard general Liu Chao planned to leave the city for the emperor, but were killed by thieves.
On the 25th, the champion general Zhao Yin sent Gan Miao to Liyang to conquer Zu Yue and defeated Zu Yue. Zu Yue defected to Shi Le, and his general Tian Teng surrendered with his troops.
Su Jun's son Su Shuo attacked Taicheng and burned the East Hall and Secret Pavilion of Tai Chi Hall, turning them all into ashes.
There was a great famine in the city, and a bushel of rice was worth ten thousand yuan.
In February, it rained heavily.
On the 13th, various armies attacked Shitou.
Li Yang and Su Yi fought at Muqiepu, and Li Yang was defeated.
Shi Tenghan, the commander of Jianwei, led his elite troops to attack, and Su Yi and others were defeated.
Teng Han escorted the emperor to Wen Qiao's ship. The officials kowtowed and cried bitterly to apologize.
Sima, the king of Yiyang, was guilty and was executed.

summary:
summary line 3: The rebellion was eventually suppressed. Various armies attacked Shitou, and Su Jun was beheaded after falling from his horse. His brother Su Yi became the new rebel leader but was later captured. The palace was reduced to ashes, and Jianpingyuan was used as the imperial residence. Liu Yao was captured alive by Shi Le. The empire continued facing challenges including Shi Jilong's attacks, Li Xiong's invasions, and natural disasters like floods and comets.

Chunk 16: 
original: 
庾怿尝送酒于江州刺史王允之，允之与犬，犬毙，惧而表之。
帝怒曰： 大舅已乱天下，小舅复欲尔邪？
怿闻，饮药而死。
然少为舅氏所制，不亲庶政。
及长，颇留心万机，务在简约，常欲于后园作射堂，计用四十金，以劳费乃止。
雄武之度，虽有愧于前王；恭俭之德，足追踪于住烈矣。
康皇帝讳岳，字世同，成帝母弟也。
咸和元年封吴王，二年徙封琅邪王；九年拜散骑常侍，加骠骑将军，咸康五年迁侍中、司徒。
八年六月庚寅，成帝不豫，诏以琅邪王为嗣。
癸巳，成帝崩。
甲午，即皇帝位，大赦。
诸屯戍文武及二千石官长，不得辄离所局而来奔赴。
translation: 
Yu Yi once sent wine to Wang Yunzhi, the governor of Jiangzhou, and allowed him to feed a dog. The dog was poisoned to death, and his fear was expressed on the ground.
Emperor Cheng said angrily: "My uncle has brought trouble to the world, what about my younger uncle?"
After hearing this, Yu Yi drank the medicine and died.
However, he was restricted by his uncle when he was young and could not personally handle various political affairs.
When I got older, I paid close attention to national affairs and strived to be simple. I once wanted to build a shooting hall in the back garden. I calculated that it would cost forty gold, but I stopped because it was a waste of money.
Although Emperor Cheng's majestic and mighty weapons were not as good as those of previous emperors, his virtues of respect and frugality were enough to track the heroes of previous generations.
Emperor Kang, whose name was Sima Yue and whose courtesy name was Shitong, was the younger brother of Emperor Cheng.
In the first year of Xianhe, he was granted the title of King of Wu, and in the second year of his reign, he was posthumously named King of Langxie; Jiuwei was appointed as a regular servant of Sanqi, plus a general of Hussar; in the fifth year of Xiankang, he was promoted to Shizhong and Situ.
In the sixth month of the eighth year of Geng Yin, Emperor Cheng became unwell and issued an edict to name King Langxie as his successor.
Guiji, Emperor Cheng died.
In the Jiawu period, Emperor Kang ascended the throne and ruled the world.
Fangwu generals and local county governors stationed in various places are not allowed to leave their posts without authorization and come to attend the funeral.

summary:
summary line 4: Emperor Cheng died at age twenty-two. He was described as intelligent in youth but restricted by his uncle's influence. He showed concern for frugality, once stopping construction of a shooting hall due to cost. Emperor Kang, named Sima Yue (courtesy name Shitong), was Emperor Cheng's younger brother. He was initially made King of Wu, then King of Langxie, and served as Situ before being named successor. He ascended the throne after Emperor Cheng's death, entrusting Yu Bing and He Chong with government affairs. His reign saw continued conflicts with Shi Jilong and Li Shou, as well as military campaigns by various generals. Emperor Kang died at age twenty-three and was buried in Chongping Mausoleum.

