Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 2, 6, 8, 9]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝灵皇帝讳宏，肃宗玄孙也。
曾祖河间孝王开，祖淑，父苌。
世封解渎亭侯，帝袭侯爵。
母董夫人。
桓帝崩，无子，皇太后与父城门校尉窦武定策禁中，使守光禄大夫刘儵持节，将左右羽林至河间奉迎。
建宁元年春正月壬午，城门校尉窦武为大将军。
己亥，帝到夏门亭，使窦武持节，以王青盖车迎入殿中。
庚子，即皇帝位，年十二。
改元建宁。
以前太尉陈蕃为太傅，与窦武及司徒胡广参录尚书事。
使护羌校尉段颎讨先零羌。
二月辛酉，葬孝桓皇帝于宣陵，庙曰威宗。
庚午，谒高庙。
辛未，谒世祖庙。
大赦天下。
赐民爵及帛各有差。
段颎大破先零羌于逢义山。
闰月甲午，追尊皇祖为孝元皇，夫人夏氏为孝元皇后，考为孝仁皇，夫人董氏为慎园贵人。
夏四月戊辰，大尉周景薨。
司空宣酆免，长乐卫尉王畅为司空。
五月丁未朔，日有食之。
诏公卿以下各上封事，及郡国守、相举有道之士各一人；又故刺史、二千石清高有遗惠、为众所归者，皆诣公车。
太中大夫刘矩为太尉。
六月，京师雨水。
秋七月，破羌将军段颎复破先零羌于泾阳。
八月，司空王畅免，宗正刘宠为司空。
九月辛亥，中常侍曹节矫诏诛太傅陈蕃、大将军窦武及尚书令尹勋、侍中刘瑜、屯骑校尉冯述，皆夷其族。
皇太后迁于南宫。
司徒胡广为太傅，隶尚书事。
司空刘宠为司徒，大鸿胪许栩为司空。
冬十月甲辰晦，日有食之。令天下系囚罪未决入缣赎，各有差。
十一月，太尉刘矩免，太仆沛国闻人袭为太尉。
十二月，鲜卑及濊貊寇幽、并二州。
二年春正月丁丑，大赦天下。
三月乙巳，尊慎园董贵人为孝仁皇后。
translation: 
Emperor Xiaoling, Liu Hong, was the great-great-grandson of Emperor Suzong.
His great-grandfather Liu Kai, the Xiaowang of Hejian, his grandfather Liu Shu, and his father Liu Chang.
Both his grandfather and father sealed the title of Marquis of Duting, and Liu Hong attacked the Marquis.
Mother, Mrs. Dong.
After the death of Emperor Huan, who had no children, the Empress Dowager Dou and her father, Chengmen school captain Dou Wudingce, sent the acting Guanglu doctor Liu Xian to hold the talisman and lead the left and right Yulin troops to Hejian to meet Liu Hong.
On the third day of the first spring of the first year of Jianning, Dou Wu, the captain of the city gate school, was appointed as the general.
On the 20th, Liu Hong came to Xiamen Pavilion in Luoyang, sent Dou Wu to hold the talisman festival, and used Wang Qingqing's chariot to welcome him into the palace.
On the 21st, he became emperor and was twelve years old.
Changed to Jianning.
Chen Fan, the former Taiwei, was appointed Taifu, and together with Dou Wu and Situ Huguang, he participated in the affairs of the general secretary.
Duan Yu, the captain who protects the Qiang, is sent to attack the Xianling Qiang.
On February 13th, Emperor Xiaohuan was buried in Xuanling, with the temple name Weizong.
On the 22nd, I paid a visit to the Gao Temple.
On the 23rd, I paid a visit to Shizu Temple.
Amnesty to the world.
The titles and silks given to the people varied.
Duan Jiong defeated the Xianling Qiang at Fengyi Mountain.
On the first day of the third month of the leap month, the imperial ancestor was named Emperor Xiaoyuan, his wife Xia was named Queen Xiaoyuan, his father was named Emperor Xiaoren, and his wife Dong was the noble lady of Shenyuan.
On the Wuchen day of April in the summer, Taiwei Zhou Jing passed away.
Sikong Xuanbang was dismissed from his post and appointed Changle Weiwei as Sikong.
On the first day of May, a solar eclipse occurs.
The ministers and ministers below were ordered to write secretly to make criticisms and suggestions on the state affairs, to report and expose, and to recommend one person to the governor of the county and the country. The former governor, Erqianshi Qinggao, who had left a legacy and was supported by the masses, all came to the bus door.
Liu Ju, the Taizhong doctor, was appointed Taiwei.
In June, it rains a lot in the capital.
In the autumn of July, General Duan Yin of Po Qiang defeated the Xianling Qiang again in Jingyang.
In August, Sikong Wang Chang was dismissed, and Zongzheng and Liu Chong were appointed as Sikong.
On the seventh day of the ninth lunar month, the official Cao Jie falsely claimed that the emperor had issued an order to kill Tai Fu Chen Fan, General Dou Wu, Shangshu Ling Yin Xun, Shi Zhong Liu Yu, and Tunqi Colonel Feng Shu. Their families were all killed.
The Empress Dowager moved to Nangong.
Situ Hu Guang was appointed as Taifu and in charge of the affairs of the Shangshu.
He appointed Sikong Liu Chong as Situ, and appointed Dahongxu Xu as Sikong.
Winter October 30th, solar eclipse. Order the prisoners in the world who have not yet been sentenced to make atonement for their sins. The number of punishments varies.
In November, Taiwei Liu Ju was dismissed from his post and appointed Pei Guo Wenren Raid as Taiwei.
In December, the Xianbei and Haoqi bandits raided You and merged with the two states.
In the spring of the second year, on the first month of the first lunar month, Ding Chou held a general amnesty for the whole world.
On the third day of March, Gui Dong of Zun Shen Garden was appointed Queen Xiaoren.
summary:
Emperor Xiaoling, Liu Hong, was the great-great-grandson of Emperor Suzong. His great-grandfather Liu Kai was the Xiaowang of Hejian, his grandfather Liu Shu and father Liu Chang were both Marquises of Duting, a title Liu Hong inherited. His mother was Mrs. Dong. After Emperor Huan died without children, Empress Dowager Dou and her father Dou Wu sent officials to escort Liu Hong to Luoyang. He became emperor at age twelve in the first year of Jianning (168 CE), with Chen Fan as Taifu and Dou Wu and Hu Guang assisting in governance. The early years saw military campaigns against the Xianling Qiang, natural disasters including earthquakes and floods, and political purges. In 169 CE, eunuch Cao Jie falsely claimed an imperial order to kill Chen Fan, Dou Wu, and others, with their families executed. The Empress Dowager was moved to Nangong. Party member persecutions intensified, with over a hundred people imprisoned and their families exiled. Solar eclipses, epidemics, and barbarian rebellions occurred frequently.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
太常宗俱为司空，前司空许栩为司徒。
冬，鲜卑寇并州。
熹平元年春三月壬戌，太傅胡广薨。
夏五月己巳，大赦天下，改元熹平。
长乐太仆侯览有罪，自杀。
六月，京师雨水。
癸巳，皇太后窦氏崩。
秋七月甲寅，葬桓思皇后。
宦官讽司隶校尉段颎捕系太学诸生千余人。
冬十月，渤海王悝被诬谋反，丁亥，悝及妻子皆自杀。
十一月，会稽人许生自称 越王 ，寇郡县，遣杨州刺史臧旻、丹阳太守陈夤讨破之。
十二月，司徒许栩罢，大鸿胪袁隗为司徒。
鲜卑寇并州。
是岁，甘陵王恢薨。
二年春正月，大疫，使使者巡行致医药。
丁丑，司空宗俱薨。
二月壬午，大赦天下。
以光禄勋杨赐为司空。
三月，太尉李咸免。
夏五月，以司隶校尉段颎为太尉。
沛相师迁坐诬罔国王，下狱死。
六月，北海地震。
东莱、北海海水溢。
秋七月，司空杨赐免，太常颍川唐珍为司空。
冬十二月，日南徼外国重译贡献。
太尉段颎罢。
鲜卑寇幽、并二州。
癸酉晦，日有食之。三年春正月，夫馀国遣使贡献。
二月己巳，大赦天下。
太常陈耽为太尉。
三月，中山王畅薨，无子，国除。
夏六月，封河间王利子康为济南王，奉孝仁皇祀。
秋，洛水溢。
冬十月癸丑，令天下系囚罪未决，入缣赎。
十一月，杨州刺史臧旻率丹阳太守陈寅，大破许生于会稽，斩之。
任城王博薨。
十二月，鲜卑寇北地，北地太守夏育追击破之。
鲜卑又寇并州。
司空唐珍罢，永乐少府许训为司空。
四年春三月，诏诸儒正《五经》文字，刻石立于太学门外。
封河间王建子佗为任城王。
translation: 
Taichang Zongji was appointed Sikong, and Xu Xu, the former Sikong, was appointed Situ.
In winter, Xianbei bandits plundered Bingzhou.
On the eighth day of the third spring of the first year of Xiping, Taifu Hu Guang passed away.
On May 16th in the summer, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country and changed to Yuan Xiping.
Hou Lan, the servant of Changle, was guilty and committed suicide.
In June, it rains a lot in the capital.
On the tenth day of the lunar month, Empress Dowager Dou passed away.
On the second day of July in autumn, Queen Huansi was buried.
The eunuch ordered Duan Yu, the captain of the Sili school, to arrest more than a thousand people from the Imperial Academy.
In the winter of October, King Liu Kui of Bohai was falsely accused of treason. On the sixth day of the lunar month, Liu Kui and his wife committed suicide.
In November, Xu Sheng from Kuaiji claimed to be the "King of Yue" and harassed the counties. He sent Zang Min, the governor of Yangzhou, and Chen Yin, the governor of Danyang, to attack and defeat them.
In December, Situ Xu Xu was dismissed and Da Honglu and Yuan Wei were appointed as Situ.
The Xianbei bandits plundered and merged the state.
In this year, Liu Hui, the king of Ganling, passed away.
In the first month of spring of the second year, there was a serious epidemic, and envoys were sent to inspect and deliver medicine.
On the 27th, Sikong Zongju passed away.
On the third day of February, there is a general amnesty.
Ren Guangluxun Yang Ci was appointed Sikong.
In March, Taiwei Li Xian was dismissed from his post.
In May of summer, Duan Yu, the captain of the Sili school, was appointed as the Taiwei.
Prime Minister Pei Shiqian was imprisoned for being falsely accused of deceiving the king.
In June, there was an earthquake in the North Sea.
Dongnai and Beihai overflowed with sea water.
In the seventh month of autumn, Sikong Yang was dismissed and appointed Taichang Yingchuan Tangzhen as Sikong.
In the winter of December, foreigners in the south of Japan came to translate languages ​​and make gifts.
Taiwei Duan was dismissed.
The Xianbei bandits plundered You and merged with the two states.
On the 29th, there was a solar eclipse. In the first month of the spring of the third year, Fuyu State sent envoys to present gifts.
On February 26th, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
He appointed Taichang and Chen Dan as Taiwei.
In March, Liu Chang, the king of Zhongshan, passed away without any children, and the feudal state was abolished.
In June of summer, Liu Kang, the king of Hejian, was granted the title of King of Jinan and was enshrined in the Xiaorenhuang Temple.
In autumn, Luoshui overflows.
On the fourteenth day of the tenth month in winter, it was ordered that all prisoners in custody who had not been sentenced should be punished by imprisonment.
In November, Zang Min, the governor of Yangzhou, led Chen Wei, the prefect of Danyang, to defeat Xu Sheng in Kuaiji and killed him.
Liu Bo, the king of Rencheng, passed away.
In December, the Xianbei bandits raided the north, and Xia Yu, the governor of the north, pursued and defeated them.
Xianbei invaders plundered Bingzhou again.
Sikong Tangzhen left and appointed Xu Xun, the young master of Yongle, as Sikong.
In the spring and March of the fourth year, he ordered the Confucians to correct the text of the Five Classics, carve it into a stone tablet and set it up outside the gate of Taixue.
Liu Tuo, the son of Liu Jian, the king of Hejian, was granted the title of King of Rencheng.
summary:
In 172 CE, the reign name changed to Xiping. Empress Dowager Dou died, and eunuch Hou Lan committed suicide after being found guilty. The Xianbei raided Bingzhou. In 175 CE, the Five Classics were carved on stone tablets outside the Taixue. Floods, locust plagues, and Xianbei raids continued. In 178 CE, the reign changed to Guanghe, and the Hongdumen school was established. The West Residence began selling official positions, with prices varying by rank. Earthquakes, solar eclipses, and the deposal of Empress Song occurred.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
二月，复长陵县，比丰、沛。
三月辛未，大赦天下。
夏，大旱。
秋，金城河水溢。
五原山岸崩。
始置圃囿署，以宦者为令。
冬，东海、东莱、琅邪井中冰厚尺余。
大有年。
中平元年春二月，巨鹿人张角自称 黄天 ，其部帅有三十六方，皆著黄巾，同日反叛。
安平、甘陵人各执其王以应之。
三月戊申，以河南尹何进为大将军，将兵屯都亭。
置八关都尉官。壬子，大赦天下党人，还诸徙者，唯张角不赦。
诏公卿出马、弩，举列将子孙及吏民有明战阵之略者，诣公车。
遣北中郎将卢植讨张角，左中郎将皇甫嵩、右中郎将朱俊讨颍川黄巾。
庚子，南阳黄巾张曼成攻杀郡守褚贡。
夏四月，太尉杨赐免，太仆弘农邓盛为太尉。
司空张济罢，大司农张温为司空。
朱俊为黄巾波才所败。
侍中向栩、张钧坐言宦者，下狱死。
汝南黄巾败太守赵谦于邵陵。
广阳黄巾杀幽州刺史郭勋及太守刘卫。
五月，皇甫嵩、朱俊复与波才等战于长社，大破之。
六月，南阳太守秦颉击张曼成，斩之。
交阯屯兵执刺史及合浦太守来达，自称 柱天将军 ，遣交阯刺史贾琮讨平之。
皇甫嵩、朱俊大破汝南黄巾于西华。
诏嵩讨东郡，朱俊讨南阳。
卢植破黄巾，围张角于广宗。
宦官诬奏植，抵罪。
遣中郎将董卓攻张角，不克。
洛阳女子生儿，两头共身。
秋七月，巴郡妖巫张脩反，寇郡县。
河南尹徐灌下狱死。
八月，皇甫嵩与黄巾战于仓亭，获其帅。
乙巳，诏皇甫嵩北讨张角。
九月，安平王续有罪诛，国除。
冬十月，皇甫嵩与黄巾贼战于广宗，获张角弟梁。
角先死，乃戮其尸。
以皇甫嵩为左车骑将军。
十一月，皇甫嵩又破黄巾于下曲阳，斩张角弟宝。
湟中义从胡北宫伯玉与先零羌叛，以金城人边章、韩遂为军帅，攻杀护羌校尉伶征、金城太守陈懿。
癸巳，朱俊拔宛城，斩黄巾别帅孙夏。
诏减太官珍羞，御食一肉；厩马非郊祭之用，悉出给军。
十二月己巳，大赦天下，改元中平。
是岁，下邳王意薨，无子，国除。
translation: 
In February, Changling County was restored and it was as abundant as abundant.
On March 21st, there was a general amnesty.
In summer, severe drought occurs.
In autumn, the Jincheng River overflows.
The Wuyuan mountain bank collapsed.
A nursery and confinement office was set up, with eunuchs as orders.
In winter, the ice in Donghai, Donglai and Langfu wells is more than a foot thick.
This year is a year of great harvest.
In the spring and February of the first year of Zhongping, Zhang Jiao from Julu called himself "Huang Tian". Thirty-six commanders under his command, all wearing yellow scarves, rebelled on the same day.
The people of Anping and Ganling each took their kings Liu Xu and Liu Zhong hostage and rose up to respond.
On the third day of March, he appointed Henan Yin Hejin as the general and led his troops to garrison in the capital pavilion.
Set up the eight passes of Hangu, Guangcheng, Yique, Dugu, Longyuan, Xuanmen, Xiaopingjin and Mengjin. On the seventh day of the lunar month, all party members in the world were pardoned, and all those who had been exiled were recalled to their hometowns. Only Zhang Jiao was not pardoned.
The ministers were ordered to present their horses, bows and crossbows, and the descendants of the generals, officials and people who were shrewd in war strategies were recommended to come to the carriage door.
Send Bei Zhonglang's general Lu Zhi to attack Zhang Jiao, Zuo Zhonglang's general Huangfu Song, and You Zhonglang's general Zhu Jun to attack the Yingchuan Yellow Turbans.
Gengzi, Nanyang Yellow Turban Zhang Mancheng attacked and killed the governor Chu Gong.
In April of summer, Taiwei Yang Ci was dismissed from his post and his servant Hongnong Deng Sheng was appointed as Taiwei.
Sikong Zhang Ji resigned and was appointed as Sikong Zhang Wen.
Zhu Jun was defeated by Huang Jinbo.
Attendants Xiang Xu and Zhang Jun were imprisoned for gossiping about eunuchs.
The Runan Yellow Turbans defeated the prefect Zhao Qian in Shaoling.
The Yellow Turbans in Guangyang killed Guo Xun, the governor of Youzhou, and Liu Wei, the prefect.
In May, Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun fought against Bo Cai again in Changshe and defeated Bo Cai.
In June, Qin Jie, the governor of Nanyang, attacked Zhang Mancheng and killed him.
The troops stationed in Jiaozhi captured the governor and the prefect of Hepu and came to Da. They called themselves General Zhutian and sent Jia Cong, the governor of Jiaozhi, to attack and put down their rebellion.
Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun defeated the Runan Yellow Turbans in Xihua.
Huangfu Song was ordered to attack Dongjun, and Zhu Jun was ordered to attack Nanyang.
Lu Zhi broke the yellow scarf and surrounded Guangzong.
The eunuch falsely accused Lu Zhi of committing the crime.
He sent General Dong Zhuo to attack Zhangjiao, but failed to capture it.
There is a girl's son in Luoyang, and they live together.
In the seventh month of autumn, the witch Zhang Xiu of Ba County rebelled and raided the county.
Yinxu of Henan Province died in prison.
In August, Huangfu Song fought with the Yellow Turban in Cangting and captured its commander Bu Ji.
On the third day of the lunar month, Huangfu Songbei was ordered to attack Zhang Jiao.
In September, Anping King Liu Xu was found guilty and executed, and the feudal state was revoked.
In October of winter, Huangfu Song fought with Zhang Jiao in Guangzong and captured Zhang Jiao's younger brother Zhang Liang.
Zhang Jiao died first, and his body was killed in a coffin.
Huangfu Song was appointed as Zuo Chaqi General.
In November, Huangfu Song defeated the Yellow Turban again in Xiaquyang and killed Zhang Jiao's younger brother Zhang Bao.
Huang Zhongyi rebelled from Hu Beigong Boyu and the Xianling Qiang. He appointed Bian Zhang and Han Sui from Jincheng as military commanders and attacked and killed Ling Zheng, the captain of the Qiang School, and Chen Yi, the prefect of Jincheng.
On the 22nd, Zhu Jun captured Wancheng and beheaded Sun Xia, the commander-in-chief of the Yellow Turban.
The edict ordered the officials to reduce the number of expensive dishes and eat only meat; the stable horses were not used for suburban sacrifices, but were all used as military horses.
On December 29th, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country, and the Yuan Dynasty was changed to Zhongping.
In this year, Liu Yi, the king of Xiapi, passed away without any children, and the feudal state was revoked.
summary:
In 179 CE, party members were pardoned. In 180 CE, Empress He was established. The emperor built shops in the inner palace where concubines traded, and he dressed as a merchant, playing with dogs and driving donkey carts. In 184 CE, Zhang Jiao led the Yellow Turban Rebellion, with followers wearing yellow scarves. The emperor appointed He Jin as general, established eight passes, and pardoned party members except Zhang Jiao. Generals Lu Zhi, Huangfu Song, and Zhu Jun suppressed the rebellion, killing Zhang Jiao and his brothers.

Chunk 8: 
original: 
夏四月，凉州刺史耿鄙讨金城贼韩遂，鄙兵大败，遂寇汉阳，汉阳太守傅燮战没。
扶风人马腾、汉阳人王国并叛，寇三辅。
太尉张温免，司徒崔烈为太尉。
五月，司空许相为司徒，光禄勋沛国丁宫为司空。
六月，洛阳民生男，两头共身。
渔阳人张纯与同郡张举举兵叛，攻杀右北平太守刘政、辽东太守杨终、护乌桓校尉公綦稠等。
举自称天子，寇幽、冀二州。
秋九月丁酉，令天下系囚罪未决，入缣赎。
冬十月，零陵人观鹄自称 平天将军 ，寇桂阳，长沙太守孙坚击斩之。
十一月，太尉崔烈罢，大司农曹嵩为太尉。
十二月，休屠各胡叛。
是岁，卖关内侯，假金印紫绶，传世，入钱五百万。
五年春正月，休屠各胡寇西河，杀郡守邢纪。
丁酉，大赦天下。
二月，有星孛于紫宫。
黄巾余贼郭太等起于西河白波谷，寇太原、河东。
三月，休屠各胡攻杀并州刺史张懿，遂与南匈奴左部胡合，杀其单于。
夏四月，汝南葛陂黄巾攻没郡县。
太尉曹嵩罢。
五月，永乐少府樊陵为太尉。
六月丙寅，大风。
太尉樊陵罢。
益州黄巾马相攻杀刺史郗俭，自称天子，又寇巴郡，杀郡守赵部，益州从事贾龙击相，斩之。
郡国七大水。
秋七月，射声校尉马日磾为太尉。
八月，初置西园八校尉。
司徒许相罢，司空丁宫为司徒。
光禄勋南阳刘弘为司空。
卫尉董重为票骑将军。
九月，南单于叛，与白波贼寇河东。
遣中郎将孟益率骑都尉公孙瓒讨渔阳贼张纯等。
冬十月，青、徐黄巾复起，寇郡县。
甲子，帝自称 无上将军 ，燿兵于平乐观。
十一月，凉州贼王国围陈仓，右将军皇甫嵩救之。
遣下军校尉鲍鸿讨葛陂黄巾。
巴郡板楯蛮叛，遣上军别部司马赵瑾讨平之。
公孙瓒与张纯战于石门，大破之。
是岁，改刺史，新置牧。
translation: 
In April of summer, Liangzhou governor Geng Bi attacked the Jincheng bandit Han Sui, and Geng Bi's army was defeated. Han Sui invaded Hanyang and Fu Xie, the prefect of Hanyang, died in the battle.
The Fufeng people Ma Teng and the Hanyang people rebelled at the same time, and the bandits plundered the three auxiliaries.
Taiwei Zhang Wen was dismissed from his post and appointed Situ Cui Lie as Taiwei.
In May, he appointed Sikong Xuxiang as Situ, and Guanglu Xunpei Guoding Palace as Sikong.
In June, Luoyang Minsheng male, both ends share the same body.
Zhang Chun from Yuyang and Zhang Ju from the same county rebelled and attacked and killed Liu Zheng, the governor of Beiping, Yang Zhong, the governor of Liaodong, Gong Qichou, the governor of Wuhuan School, and others.
Zhang Ju claimed to be the emperor and raided Youzhou and Jizhou.
On September 13th in the autumn, it is ordered that all prisoners in custody who have not yet been sentenced can be put into prison to atone for their sins.
In the tenth month of winter, Guan Hu, a native of Lingling, called himself "General Pingtian" and raided Guiyang. Sun Jian, the governor of Changsha, attacked and killed him.
In November, Cui Lie, the Taiwei, resigned and appointed Cao Song, the chief minister, as the Taiwei.
In December, Xiutu Gehu rebelled.
This year, the Marquis of Guan Nei was sold and given a gold seal and purple ribbon, which could be passed down to descendants for generations, and he paid five million.
In the first month of the spring of the fifth year, Xiu massacred all the barbarian bandits and raided Xihe, killing the county governor Xing Ji.
On the 15th, a general amnesty was given to the whole world.
The February Comet appears in the constellation Purple House.
The remaining Yellow Turban bandits Guo Tai and others started in the Baibo Valley of the Xihe River and raided Taiyuan and Hedong.
In March, Xiutu Gehu attacked and killed Zhang Yi, the governor of Bingzhou, and joined forces with the Hu people from the left of the Southern Xiongnu to kill the Chanyu of the Southern Xiongnu.
In April of summer, the Yellow Turbans of Runan Gepi captured the counties.
Taiwei Cao Song goes away.
In May, he appointed Fan Ling, the Shaofu of Yongle, as Taiwei.
June 16, strong wind.
Taiwei Fan Ling leaves.
The Yellow Turban Ma Prime Minister of Yizhou attacked and killed hope Jianjian, the governor, claiming to be the emperor. He also plundered Bajun and killed the county governor Zhao Bu. Jia Long, the governor of Yizhou, attacked Ma Prime Minister and killed him.
Floods occurred in seven places in the county.
In the autumn of July, Ma Rishidan, the captain of Shesheng School, was appointed as Taiwei.
In August, eight captains were set up in Xiyuan: the upper army, the middle army, the lower army, the dian army, the left army, the right army, the assistant army left, and the assistant army right.
Situ Xu resigned and appointed Sikong Dinggong as Situ.
Ren Guang Luxun Nanyang Liu Hong was appointed Sikong.
He appointed Weiwei Dong Chong as General of Hussars.
In September, Nan Shanyu rebelled and raided Hedong with Baibo bandits.
He sent Zhonglang General Meng Yi to lead the cavalry captain Gongsun Zan to attack the Yuyang bandit Zhang Chun and others.
In October of winter, the Yellow Turbans rose again in Qingzhou and Xuzhou and raided counties.
On the 16th, the emperor proclaimed himself "Supreme General" and reviewed the army in Pingtang.
In November, the Liangzhou bandit kingdom surrounded Chencang, and the right general Huangfu Song went to help.
He sent military captain Bao Hong to attack the Yellow Turbans in Gebei.
The Banchen barbarians in Bajun rebelled, and Sima Zhao Jin of the Shanxi Army was sent to attack them and quell the rebellion.
Gongsun Zan fought with Zhang Chun at Shimen, and Zhang Chun was defeated.
This year, the governor was changed and a new pastor was established.
summary:
In 185 CE, Nangong caught fire, and taxes were levied per mu for palace construction. Black Mountain bandits and Xianbei raids continued. In 186 CE, Zhao Ci rebelled and was killed. In 187 CE, Zhang Chun and Zhang Ju rebelled in Yuyang, claiming emperorship. In 188 CE, the emperor proclaimed himself "Supreme General" and reviewed the army. Eight captains were established in Xiyuan. The Liangzhou bandit kingdom surrounded Chencang.

Chunk 9: 
original: 
六年春二月，左将军皇甫嵩大破王国于陈仓。
三月，幽州牧刘虞购斩渔阳贼张纯。
下军校尉鲍鸿下狱死。
夏四月丙午朔，日有食之。太尉马日磾免，幽州牧刘虞为太尉。
丙辰，帝崩于南宫嘉德殿，年三十四。
戊午，皇子辩即皇帝位，年十七。
尊皇后曰皇太后，太后临朝。
大赦天下，改元为光熹。
封皇弟协为渤海王。
后将军袁隗为太傅，与大将军何进参录尚书事。
上军校尉蹇硕下狱死。
五月辛巳，票骑将军董重下狱死。
六月辛亥，孝仁皇后董氏崩。
辛酉，葬孝灵皇帝于文陵。
雨水。
秋七月，甘陵王忠薨。
庚寅，孝仁皇后归葬河间慎陵。
徙渤海王协为陈留王。
司徒丁宫罢。
八月戊辰，中常侍张让、段珪杀大将军何进，于是虎贲中郎将袁术烧东西宫，攻诸宦者。
庚午，张让、段珪等劫少帝及陈留王幸北宫德阳殿。
何进部曲将吴匡与车骑将军何苗战于朱雀阙下，苗败，斩之。
辛末，司隶校尉袁绍勒后收伪司隶校尉樊陵、河南尹许相及诸阉人，无少长皆斩之。
让、珪等复劫少帝、陈留王走小平津。
尚书卢植追让、珪等，斩数人，其余投河而死。
帝与陈留王协夜步逐荧光行数里，得民家露车，共乘之。
辛未，还宫。
大赦天下，改光熹为昭宁。
并州牧董卓杀执金吾丁原。
司空刘弘免，董卓自为司空。
九月甲戌，董卓废帝为弘农王。
自六月雨，至于是月。
translation: 
In the spring and February of the sixth year, the left general Huangfu Song defeated the kingdom in Chencang.
In February, Liu Yu, the shepherd of Youzhou, offered a reward for killing the Yuyang bandit Zhang Chun.
Bao Hong, the lieutenant of the military academy, died in prison.
On the first day of April in summer, there is a solar eclipse. Taiwei Ma Rishidan was dismissed from his post and Liu Yu, the shepherd of Youzhou, was appointed as Taiwei.
On the eleventh day, the emperor passed away in the Jiade Hall of Nangong. Year thirty-four.
On the 13th, Prince Bian became emperor at the age of seventeen.
Respect the queen as the empress dowager, and the empress dowager is in court.
He granted amnesty to the world and changed his name to Guangxi.
The emperor's younger brother Liu Xie was granted the title of King of Bohai.
Later, General Yuan Wei was appointed as Taifu, and he and General He Jin participated in the affairs of the general secretary.
Jian Shuo, the captain of the military academy, died in prison.
On the sixth day of the fifth lunar month, Dong Chong, the hussar general, died in prison.
On the seventh day of June, Empress Xiaoren Dong passed away.
On the 17th, Emperor Xiaoling was buried in Wenling.
Lots of rain.
In the seventh month of autumn, Liu Zhong, the king of Ganling, passed away.
On the 16th, Queen Xiaoren was buried in Shenling Mausoleum in Hejian.
Liu Xie, the king of Bohai, was transferred to King Chenliu.
Let's go to Situ Ding Palace.
On August 25, Zhang Rang, Duan Wanggui and others killed the general He Jin, so Huben Zhonglang sent Yuan Shu to burn the East and West palaces and attack the eunuchs.
On the 27th, Zhang Rang, Duan Wanggui and others kidnapped the young emperor and Chenliu King Liu Xie to the Deyang Hall of the North Palace.
He Jin's troops fought Wu Kuang and the cavalry general He Miao under the Zhuque Tower. He Miao defeated and beheaded Wu Kuang.
On the 28th, Sili Colonel Yuan Shao led the army to arrest the puppet Sili Colonel Fan Ling, Henan Yin Xuxiang and many eunuchs, and killed them all regardless of their junior or senior status.
Zhang Rang, Duan Wanggui and others kidnapped the young emperor and Chenliu King Liu Xie to Xiaopingjin.
Shangshu Lu Zhi chased Zhang Rang, Duan Wanggui and others, beheading several of them, while the rest threw themselves into the Yellow River and drowned.
The emperor and Chenliu Wang Liu Xie walked for several miles in the dark, following the weak fluorescent light. They got into an open carriage without a scarf and curtains, which was used by ordinary people to carry things, and they rode together.
On the 28th, the emperor returned to the palace.
He granted amnesty to the world and changed Guangxi to Zhaoning.
Dong Zhuo, the governor of Bingzhou, killed Jinwu Dingyuan.
Liu Hong was dismissed as Sikong, and Dong Zhuo became Sikong.
On the first day of September, Dong Zhuo deposed the emperor as King Hongnong.
It rained since June until this month.
summary:
In 189 CE, Huangfu Song defeated the kingdom. The emperor died in Nangong at age thirty-four. Prince Bian became emperor at seventeen, with Empress Dowager He regent. Eunuch Zhang Rang and others killed General He Jin, leading to Yuan Shu burning the palaces and Yuan Shao massacring eunuchs. The young emperor and Prince Xie were kidnapped but later returned. Dong Zhuo deposed the emperor as Prince Hongnong. Heavy rain fell from June to September.

