Chunk 0: 
original: 
长沙嗣王业字静旷，高祖长兄懿之子也。
懿字元达，少有令誉。
解褐齐安南邵陵王行参军，袭爵临湘县侯。
迁太子舍人、洗马、建安王友。
出为晋陵太守，曾未期月，讼理人和，称为善政。
入为中书侍郎。
永明季，授持节、都督梁、南、北秦、沙四州诸军事、西戎校尉、梁、南秦二州刺史，加冠军将军。
是岁，魏人入汉中，遂围南郑。
懿随机拒击，伤杀甚多，乃解围遁去。
懿又遣氐帅杨元秀攻魏历城、皋兰、骆谷、坑池等六戍，克之。魏人震惧，边境遂宁。
进号征虏将军，增封三百户，迁督益、宁二州军事、益州刺史。
入为太子右卫率、尚书吏部郎、卫尉卿。
永元二年，裴叔业据豫州反，授持节、征虏将军、督豫州诸军事、豫州刺史，领历阳、南谯二郡太守，讨叔业。叔业惧，降于魏。
既而平西将军崔慧景入寇京邑，奉江夏王宝玄围台城。齐室大乱，诏征懿。
懿时方食，投箸而起，率锐卒三千人援城。
慧景遣其子觉来拒，懿奔击，大破之，觉单骑走。
乘胜而进，慧景众溃，追斩之。
授侍中、尚书右仆射，未拜。仍迁尚书令、都督征讨水陆诸军事，持节、将军如故，增邑二千五百户。
时东昏肆虐，茹法珍、王咺之等执政，宿臣旧将，并见诛夷，懿既立元勋，独居朝右，深为法珍等所惮，乃说东昏曰： 懿将行隆昌故事，陛下命在晷刻。
东昏信之，将加酷害，而懿所亲知之，密具舟江渚，劝令西奔。
懿曰： 古皆有死，岂有叛走尚书令耶？
遂遇祸。
中兴元年，追赠侍中、中书监、司徒。
宣德太后临朝，改赠太傅。
天监元年，追崇丞相，封长沙郡王，谥曰宣武。
给九旒、鸾辂、厓辌车，黄屋左纛，前后部羽葆鼓吹，挽歌二部，虎贲班剑百人，葬礼一依晋安平王故事。
业幼而明敏，识度过人。
仕齐为著作郎、太子舍人。
宣武之难，与二弟藻、象俱逃匿。
高祖既至，乃赴于军，以为宁朔将军。
中兴二年，除辅国将军、南琅邪、清河二郡太守。
天监二年，袭封长沙王，征为冠军将军，量置佐史，迁秘书监。
translation: 
Changsha's successor Xiao Ye, whose courtesy name was Jingkuang, was the son of Gaozu's eldest brother Xiao Yi.
Xiao Yi was named Yuanda and had a good reputation when he was young.
He became an official and joined the army under the command of Prince Shaoling of Annan. He inherited the title of Duoxiang County Fort.
He was also moved to Prince Sheren, Xima, and King You of Jian'an.
After taking office as the Medical Administrator of Jin, within a month, the lawsuits were sorted out, everyone was calm, and he was called good governance.
Later, he was called to serve as the Minister of Zhongshu.
During the next year of Cheng's reign, Xiao Yi was awarded the title of Chijie, the governor of Liangzhou, Southern Qinzhou, Northern Qinzhou, and the military affairs of the four prefectures, the captain of Xirong, the governor of Zhuzhou and Nanqinzhou, and the champion general.
This year, the Wei army invaded Hanzhong and then surrounded Nanzheng.
Xiao Yi responded accordingly, blocked the Wei army, and killed many enemies. The Wei army then dispersed the encirclement and quietly withdrew.
Xiao Yi then sent the Di commander Yang Yuanxiu to attack Wei Chao's six garrison posts, including Licheng, Gaolan, Luogu, and Kengchi, and captured these garrison posts. The Wei people were shocked and frightened, and the border was peaceful.
Xiao Yi was promoted to the title of General of the Conqueror, granted 300 additional households in the city, and moved to the military governorship of Yizhou and Ningzhou, and the governor of Yizhou.
He was also summoned to serve as the crown prince's right guard leader, minister of official affairs, and Weiweiqing.
In the second year of Yongyuan, Uncle Pei occupied Yuzhou and rebelled. Xiao Yi was awarded the title of Chijie, general of conquering captives, supervising the military affairs of Yuzhou, governor of Yuzhou, and concurrently serving as the governor of Libao and Luzhan counties.
Soon, Pingxi General Cui Huijing invaded the capital and followed Jiangxia King Xiao Yinxuan to surround Taicheng. The Qi Dynasty was in chaos, and the emperor ordered to summon Xiao Yi.
Xiao Yi was eating at the time. When he received the order, he immediately threw away his chopsticks, stood up, and led 3,000 elite soldiers to rescue the capital.
Cui Huijing sent his son Cui Jue to resist Lu Mo. Lu Kui led his army to attack and defeated Ju Jue, and Cui Jue escaped on horseback alone.
Xiao Han's army took advantage of the victory and pursued Cui Huijing's army. Xiao Yi caught up with Cui Huijing and killed him.
Xiao Yi was awarded the title of Shizhong and Shangshu Right Servant. Before he could become an official, he was moved to Shangshu Ling and Commander-in-Chief to conquer all land and water armies. He still held the post of Chief Officer and General, and added 2,500 households in the city.
At that time, Marquis Shuhun was in court, and he was brutal and indulgent. Ru Fazhen, Wang Xinzhi and others were in charge of the government. The old ministers and generals of the previous dynasty were killed one by one by the Yi tribe. After Xiao Yi established his merits, he alone occupied a high position in the court. Deeply feared by Ru Fazhen and others, they advised Donghunhou: Xiao Yi will repeat the story of the Longchang period, and your Majesty's life is in danger.
Marquis Shuhun believed their words and wanted to kill Xiao Yi. When people close to Xiao Yi learned about this plan, they secretly prepared a boat and placed it on the riverside, and persuaded Xiao Yi to escape westward by boat.
Xiao Zhu said: Since ancient times, there has been a matter of death festival. Is there anyone who has ordered the minister to defect?
So Xiao Yi was killed.
In the first year of Qi Zhongxing's reign, he was posthumously given the titles of Shizhong, Zhongshujian and Situ.
When the Empress Dowager Xuande came to power, she gave Xiao Yi the title of Taifu.
In the first year of Tianjian, Xiao Yi was promoted as prime minister, and he was granted the title of Prince of Changsha, with the title of Xuanwu.
Presented to the Jiuqi Banner, the Emperor Luan's car, the funeral car of Yunjing, the huangzhen car cover and the flag hanging on the left side of the car scale, Yubao drums at the front and rear, two elegy parts, and a hundred swordsmen with tiger swords. The funeral was carried out completely in accordance with the style of King Anping of Jin Dynasty.
Xiao Ye was smart and alert at a young age, and his knowledge and tolerance exceeded ordinary people.
He entered the Qi Dynasty as an official and served as a scholar and prince.
After the Xuanwu Incident, he fled and hid with his two younger brothers, Xiao Zao and Xiao Xiang.
After Gaozu arrived, he joined Gaozu's army, and Gaozu appointed Lu Tomb as General Ningshuo.
In the second year of Zhongxing Dynasty, Xiao Ye was appointed as the general of Fuguo and the prefect of Nanlangxie and Qinghe counties.
In the second year of Tianjian, he attacked the king of Changsha and was called to serve as the champion general.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
四年，改授侍中。
六年，转散骑常侍、太子右卫率，迁左骁骑将军，寻为中护军，领石头戍军事。
七年，出为使持节、都督南兗、兗、徐、青、冀五州诸军事、仁威将军、南兗州刺史。
八年，征为护军。
九年，除中书令，改授安后将军、镇琅、邪彭城二郡、领南琅邪太守。
十年，征为安右将军、散骑常侍。
十四年，复为护军，领南琅邪、彭城，镇于琅邪。
复征中书令，出为轻车将军、湘州刺史。
业性敦笃，所在留惠。
深信因果，笃诚佛法，高祖每嘉叹之。
普通三年，征为散骑常侍、护军将军。
四年，改为侍中、金紫光禄大夫。
七年，薨，时年四十八。
谥曰元。
有文集行于世。
子孝俨嗣。
孝俨字希庄，聪慧有文才。
射策甲科，除秘书郎、太子舍人。
从幸华林园，于座献《相风乌》、《华光殿》、《景阳山》等颂，其文甚美，高祖深赏异之。
普通元年，薨，时年二十三。
谥曰章。
子慎嗣。
藻字靖艺，元王弟也。
少立名行，志操清洁。
齐永元初，释褐著作佐郎。
天监元年，封西昌县侯，食邑五百户。
出为持节、都督益、宁二州诸军事、冠军将军、益州刺史。
时天下草创，边徼未安，州民焦僧护聚众数万，据郫、繁作乱。
藻年未弱冠，集僚佐议，欲自击之。
或陈不可，藻大怒，斩于阶侧。
乃乘平肩舆，巡行贼垒。
贼弓乱射，矢下如雨，从者举楯御箭，又命除之，由是人心大安。
贼乃夜遁，藻命骑追之，斩首数千级，遂平之。
进号信威将军，九年，征为太子中庶子。
十年，为左骁骑将军、领南琅邪太守。
translation: 
Four years later, he was appointed as a minister.
In the sixth year, he was transferred to the rank of regular servant of Sanqi and the commander of the prince's right guard. He was moved to the position of general of Zuo Xiaoqi. Soon he was appointed as the central guard and also served as the stone garrison.
In the seventh year, he served as envoy Chijie, governor of Nanyancong, Chazhou, Tuye, Zhiye and Jiye, general Renwei, and governor of Nanyanzhou.
In eight years, he was called into the army.
In the ninth year, he was appointed Zhongshu Ling, and was later appointed as General Anhou, guarding the two counties of Langye and Pengcheng, and concurrently serving as the prefect of Nanlangye County.
In ten years, he was called up to serve as General Anyou and regular attendant of Sanqi.
In the fourteenth year, he was appointed as the guard of the army, and concurrently as the chief of Nanlangye and Pengcheng, and controlled Langye.
Later, he was called to serve as Zhongshu Ling and served as general of light vehicles and governor of Xiangzhou.
Xiao Ye has an honest and honest nature, leaving kindness wherever he goes.
He firmly believed in karma and retribution, and served the Dharma devoutly. Shenzhen often praised him.
In the third year of Xuantong, he was called up to serve as a regular servant of Sanqi and a general of the army.
Four years later, he was appointed as Shizhong and Doctor Jin Ziguanglu.
Seven years later, Lu Tomb died at the age of forty-eight.
Mi number five.
His collected works are popular all over the world.
His son, Jiaochengbao, succeeded him.
Xiaoyan, whose courtesy name is Xizhuang, is intelligent and talented.
In the shooting test to select officials, he passed Section A and was appointed Secretary Lang and Prince Sheren.
He followed the emperor to Hualin Garden and presented eulogies such as "Xiangfengwu", "Huaguang Hall" and "Jingyang Mountain" at the seat. The article was very beautiful. Emperor Gaozu deeply appreciated it and thought it was a wonderful article.
In the first year of Xuantong, Dong Baobao passed away at the age of twenty-three.
Mi Hao Zhang.
His son Xiao Shen succeeded him.
Dong Jiang, courtesy name Jingyi, was the younger brother of King Yuan.
He established a good reputation and image when he was young, and his ambition and conduct were elegant and noble.
In the early years of Qi Yongyuan, he became an official and served as Zuo Lang.
In the first year of Tianjian, Xiao Zao was granted the title of Marquis of Xichang County and was granted the title of 500 households.
He served as Chijie, Commander-in-Chief of the military affairs of Yizhou and Ningzhou, Champion General, and Governor of Yizhou.
At that time, the country had just been established and the borders were not yet stable. Jiao Senghu, a native of Yizhou, gathered tens of thousands of people and occupied Li and Fan counties and then rebelled.
Lu Lian was not yet ten years old at this time, so he summoned his staff to discuss it, and wanted to personally attack Jiao Senghu.
Someone thought that this was not allowed. Lu Lian was furious and killed the person beside the steps.
So Xiao Zao took a flat-shouldered cart and patrolled outside the camp occupied by the rebels.
The thieves fired their bows and arrows at random, and the arrows rained down on Xiao Zao. The soldiers who followed raised their shields to block the incoming arrows, and Xiao Zao ordered them to be removed. Therefore, people's hearts were at peace.
The rebels slipped away quietly at night. Xiao Zao ordered the cavalry to pursue the rebels and killed thousands of them, thus leveling the rebel army.
Xiao Jiangjin was titled General Xinwei. In the ninth year, he was called to serve as the crown prince's concubine.
In ten years, he served as General Zuo Xiaoqi and concurrently as the governor of Nanlangxie County.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
入为侍中。
藻性谦退，不求闻达。
善属文辞，尤好古体，自非公宴，未尝妄有所为，纵有小文，成辄弃本。
十一年，出为使持节、都督雍、梁、秦三州竟陵、随二郡诸军事、仁威将军、宁蛮校尉、雍州刺史。
十二年，征为使持节、都督南兗、兗、徐、青、冀五州诸军事、兗州刺史，军号如故。
频莅数镇，民吏称之。
推善下人，常如弗及。
征为太子詹事。
普通三年，迁领军将军，加侍中。
六年，为军师将军，与西豊侯正德北伐涡阳，辄班师，为有司所奏，免官削爵土。
七年，起为宗正卿。
八年，复封爵，寻除左卫将军，领步兵校尉。
大通元年，迁侍中、中护军。
时涡阳始降，乃以藻为使持节、北讨都督、征北大将军，镇于涡阳。
二年，为中权将军、金紫光禄大夫，置佐史，加侍中。
中大通元年，迁护军将军，中权如故。
三年，为中军将军、太子詹事，出为丹阳尹。
高祖每叹曰： 子弟并如迦叶，吾复何忧。
迦叶，藻小名也。
入为安左将军、尚书左仆射，加侍中，藻固辞不就，诏不许。
大同五年，迁中卫将军、开府仪同三司、中书令，侍中如故。
藻性恬静，独处一室，床有膝痕，宗室衣冠，莫不楷则。
常以爵禄太过，每思屏退，门庭闲寂，宾客罕通，太宗尤敬爱之。
自遭家祸，恒布衣蒲席，不食鲜禽，非在公庭，不听音乐。高祖每以此称之。
出为使持节、督南徐州刺史。
translation: 
He was also called to serve as a servant.
Dong Jiang has a humble character and does not seek to be famous.
He is good at composition and poetry, and is especially fond of ancient poetry. However, unless he is composing poetry at a public banquet, he never writes anything rashly, even if he writes a small article. Once completed, throw away the manuscript.
In the eleventh year, Xiao Zao served as envoy Chijie, governor of Yong, Liang, Qin three prefectures and Jingling prefecture, Sui two prefectures of military affairs, general Renwei, Ningman captain, and governor of Yong prefecture.
In the twelfth year, he was appointed as envoy Chijie, commander-in-chief of the military affairs of the five states of Nanyanzhou, Yanzhou, Xuzhou, Qingzhou, and Jizhou, and governor of Yanzhou. The military title remained as before.
He visited several towns frequently, and the people and officials praised him very much.
He recommended kindness to his servants, but often it seemed that he did not do enough.
He was also called to serve as Prince Zhan.
In ordinary three years, he was moved to the position of leading general and added to the rank of Shizhong.
In the sixth year, he served as military advisor general, and together with Xifenghou Zhengxi, he went on the northern expedition to Guoyang. He soon returned to Beijing and was reported by relevant officials to remove him from his official position and reduce his title.
Seven years. Lu Peng was appointed as Zong Zhengqing.
In the eighth year, he regained his title. Soon after, he was awarded the title of General Zuowei and concurrently served as an infantry captain.
In the first year of Datong, he moved to serve as the official in charge of the Central Military Commission and the Central Protector of the Army.
At that time, Guoyang had just surrendered, and Lu Peng was appointed as envoy Chijie, governor of the northern expedition, and general of the northern expedition to guard it.
In the third year of his reign, Gai Jie was appointed General Zhongquan and Doctor Jin Ziguanglu, appointed assistant historian, and served as minister.
In the first year of Zhongdatong, Xiao Zao moved to the post of general of the army guard and still held the position of Zhongquan.
In three years, he was appointed as the general of the Chinese army, the prince Zhan Shi, and the Danyang Yin.
Emperor Gaozu often praised and said: If all my disciples could be like Kassapa, what would I have to worry about?
It is the nickname of Lu Peng.
Lu Jie was again summoned to serve as General Anzuo and Shangshu Zuopushe, and as a servant. Xiao Zao resolutely resigned and refused to accept the appointment. The emperor ordered him not to refuse.
In the fifth year of Datong, he moved to the post of General of Zhongwei, Kaifu Yitong Third Division, Zhongshu Ling, and still held the position of Shizhong.
Dong Jiang had a quiet temperament. He lived alone in a room. The bed he often sat on was scratched by his knees. No one in the clan, including officials and officials, did not regard him as a role model.
He often thought that the title and salary he received were too high, so he wanted to retire. Therefore, he was idle and lonely in the inner courtyard, and rarely interacted with guests. Therefore, Cese especially respected and loved Lu Lian.
After suffering a family disaster, Xiao Zao wore cloth clothes and mats all year round. He did not eat fresh fish or live poultry. He did not listen to music unless he was in public places. Gao Dan often praised him for this.
Lu Lian was appointed as envoy Chijie and governor of Xuzhou in the south.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
侯景乱，藻遣长子彧率兵入援，及城开，加散骑常侍、大将军。
景遣其仪同萧邕代之，据京口，藻因感气疾，不自疗。
或劝奔江北，藻曰： 吾国之台铉，位任特隆，既不能诛剪逆贼，正当同死朝廷，安能投身异类，欲保余生。
因不食累日。
太清三年，薨，时年六十七。
永阳嗣王伯游，字士仁，高祖次兄敷之子。
敷字仲达，解褐齐后将军、征虏行参军，辅太子舍人，洗马，迁丹阳尹丞。
入为太子中舍人，除建威将军、随郡内史。
招怀远近，黎庶安之，以为前后之政莫之及也。
进号宁朔将军，征为庐陵王谘议参军。
建武四年，薨。
高祖即位，追赠侍中、司空，封永阳郡王，谥曰昭。
伯游美风神，善言玄理。
天监元年四月，诏曰： 兄子伯游，虽年识未弘，意尚粗可。
浙东奥区，宜须抚莅，可督会稽、东阳、新安、永嘉、临海五郡诸军事、辅国将军、会稽太守。
二年，袭封永阳郡王。
五年，薨，时年二十三。
谥曰恭。
衡阳嗣王元简，字熙远，高祖第四弟畅之子。
畅仕齐至太常，封江陵县侯，卒。
天监元年，追赠侍中、骠骑大将军、开府仪同三司。
封衡阳郡王。
谥曰宣。
元简三年袭封，除中书郎，迁会稽太守。
十三年，入为给事黄门侍郎，出为持节、都督广、交、越三州诸军事、平越中郎将、广州刺史。
还为太子中庶子，迁使持节、都督郢、司、霍三州诸军事、信武将军、郢州刺史。
十八年正月，卒于州。
谥曰孝。
translation: 
After the Chu Rebellion broke out, Lu Yu sent his eldest son Lu Sheng to lead soldiers into the capital for reinforcements. After the city gate was liberated, Xiao Zao was appointed as a regular attendant and general of the scattered cavalry.
Hou Jing sent his Yi Tong Xiao Yong to replace him. When he was occupying Saidan, Lu Lian contracted an epidemic, but he did not treat it himself.
Someone advised him to defect to Jiangbei. Xiao Zao said: I am an important minister of the country and my position is very important. Since I cannot kill and cut off the traitors, I should participate in the imperial court and share life and death. How can I sell myself to a foreigner and save my own life?
So he didn't eat for several days.
In the third year of Taiqing, Xiao Zao passed away at the age of sixty-seven.
Xiao Boyou, the successor of Yongyang, also named Shiren, was the son of Xiao Fu, the second brother of Emperor Gaozu.
The character of Luqian was Chuda. He became an official and became a military officer. He served as a conscript in the rear army and joined the army. He was transferred to the prince's house, washed his horse, and moved to Danyang Yincheng.
Later, he was called to serve as Prince Zhongsheren, and was awarded the title of General Jianwei and Sui County Internal History.
Xiao Fu was able to recruit and care for people near and far, and the people lived and worked in peace and contentment. He thought that the political achievements of previous officials could not compare with him.
Xiao Fujin was given the title of General Ningshuo and was recruited to join the army as a consultant to the King of Luling.
In the fourth year of Jianwu's reign, Kochi died.
After Zhidan ascended the throne, he posthumously gave Gaifu to Shizhong and Sikong, and was granted the title of Prince of Yongyang County, with the title of Mi Zhao.
Xiao Boyou has a graceful demeanor and handsome expression, and is good at explaining mysteries.
In April of the first year of the year, the emperor went down to Shao and said: My brother's son is on a tour. Although he is not old and has not much experience, I think it is okay to come.
The remote mountainous areas in the fortress also need someone to manage them. Boyou can supervise the military affairs of the five counties of Heshan, Saimo, Saitong, Chengtai, and Zuoduo, as well as the generals who assist the country and the prefect of Heshan.
In the second year, Kou Zhi went on a raid and granted the title of Prince of Chengyang County.
Five years later, Lu Zhiyou died at the age of twenty-three.
Mi Hao Gong.
Hengyang heir Wang Yuanjian, courtesy name Xiyuan, was the son of Xiao Chang, the fourth brother of Emperor Gaozu.
Xiao Chang served as an official in Zhiman until Taichang, and was granted the title of Marquis of Jiangling County. He later died.
In the first year of his imprisonment, he was forced to be given the title of Shizhong, Hussar General, and Kaifu Yitong.
He was granted the title of Prince of Hengyang County.
Mi Hao announced.
In the third year of the Yuan Dynasty, he was awarded the title of Zhongshu Lang and was appointed as the prefect of Huishan Li.
In the thirteenth year, he was called to serve as the Minister of Huangmen, and served as Chijie, Commander-in-Chief of the military affairs of Guangzhou, Jiaozhou and Yuezhou, Pingyue Zhonglang General, and Guangzhou Governor.
He was moved to the position of concubine among the crown princes. He was then moved to the post of envoy Chijie, governor of Yingzhou, Sizhou, and Huozhou military affairs, general Xinwu, and governor of Yingzhou.
In the first month of the eighteenth year, Xiao Yuanjian died in office.
Mi Hao Xiao.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
子俊嗣。
桂阳嗣王象，字世翼，长沙宣武王第九子也。
初，叔父融仕齐至太子洗马。
永元中，宣武之难，融遇害。
高祖平京邑，赠给事黄门侍郎。
天监元年，加散骑常侍、抚军大将军，封桂阳郡王。
谥曰简。
无子，乃诏象为嗣，袭封爵。
象容止闲雅，善于交游，事所生母以孝闻。
起家宁远将军、丹阳尹。
到官未几，简王妃薨，去职。
服阕，复授明威将军、丹阳尹。
象生长深宫，始亲庶政，举无失德，朝廷称之。
出为持节、督司、霍、郢三州诸军事、征远将军、郢州刺史。
寻迁湘、衡二州诸军事、轻车将军、湘州刺史。
湘州旧多虎暴，及象在任，为之静息，故老咸称德政所感。
除中书侍郎，俄以本官行石头戍军事，转给事黄门侍郎、兼领军，又以本官兼宗正卿。
寻迁侍中、太子詹事，未拜，改授持节、督江州诸军事、信武将军、江州刺史。
以疾免。
寻除太常卿，加侍中，迁秘书监、领步兵校尉。
大同二年，薨，谥曰敦。
子慥嗣。
史臣曰：长沙诸嗣王，并承袭土宇，光有籓服。
桂阳王象以孝闻，在于牧湘，猛虎息暴，盖德惠所致也。
昔之善政，何以加焉。
translation: 
His son Xiao Jun succeeded him.
Xiao Xiang, the successor king of Guiyang, named Shiyi, was the ninth son of King Xuanwu of Changsha.
At first, his uncle Lu Rong served as an official in Human and became the prince's horse washer.
In the fifth year of Cheng's reign, Lu Rong was killed in the Xuanwu Incident.
After Chandan pacified the capital, he was forced to give Lu Rong to serve as the minister of Huangmen.
In the first year of Yujian's reign, he was given the title of Changshi of Sanqi and the general of Fujun, and was granted the title of Prince of Guiyang.
Mi Hao Jian.
Xiao Rong had no sons, so the emperor went to Shao to let Xiao Xiang succeed him and grant him a title.
Xiao Xiang is elegant in appearance and manners, and is good at making friends. He is very filial in serving his biological mother, so he is famous far and wide.
He left home to become an official, serving as General Ningyuan and Danyang Yin.
Shortly after taking office, Xiao Xiang resigned due to the death of Princess Jian.
After the mourning period expired, he was awarded the titles of General Mingwei and Danyang Yin.
Xiao Xiang grew up in a deep palace. From the beginning, he personally carried out political affairs, and his actions were not immoral. Everyone in the court praised him.
Later he served as Chijie, governor of Sizhou, Huozhou and Yingzhou, military general of Zhengzhou, and governor of Yingzhou.
Soon he moved to Xiangzhou and Hengzhou to serve as military officers, generals of light vehicles, and governor of Xiangzhou.
There used to be a lot of tigers in Qianzhou, which often hurt people and animals. When Xiao Xiang was appointed governor, the tiger harm stopped. The old people said that this was Xiao Xiang's virtues that moved the tigers.
Xiao Xiang was appointed as the Minister of Zhongshu. Soon, he used his original official position to carry out the military affairs of Shitou garrison, and was transferred to serve as the Minister of Huangmen and the leader of the army. He also served as Zong Zhengqing in his own capacity.
Soon he was moved to the post of Shizhong and Prince Zhanshi. Before he could become an official, he was appointed as Chijie, Supervisor of all military affairs in Liao Dynasty, General Xinwu, and Governor.
Dismissed due to illness.
Soon after, he was appointed as Taichang Qing, and was promoted to secretary-supervisor and infantry school captain.
In the second year of Datong, Xiao Xiang died and Mi was named Dun.
His son Xiao Cao succeeded him.
Shi Chen said: All the successor kings of the Changsha King inherited the land and houses and owned vast fiefs.
King Xiao Xiang of Guiyang was famous for his filial piety. When he was herding in Adam Prefecture in Laos, the tigers stopped their brutal behavior. This was probably due to his kindness and kindness.
Nothing can surpass him in terms of good governance in the past.


