Summary uses chunk [0, 7, 9]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
简文帝太宗简文皇帝，讳纲，字世缵，小字六通，高祖第三子，昭明太子母弟也。
天监二年十月丁未，生于显阳殿。
五年，封晋安王，食邑八千户。
八年，为云麾将军，领石头戍军事，量置佐吏。
九年，迁使持节、都督南北兗、青、徐、冀五州诸军事、宣毅将军、南兗州刺史。
十二年，入为宣惠将军、丹阳尹。
十三年，出为使持节、都督荆、雍、梁、南北秦、益、宁七州诸军事、南蛮校尉、荆州刺史，将军如故。
十四年，徙为都督江州诸军事、云麾将军、江州刺史，持节如故。
十七年，征为西中郎将、领石头戍军事，寻复为宣惠将军、丹阳尹，加侍中。
普通元年，出为使持节、都督益、宁、雍、梁、南北秦、沙七州诸军事、益州刺史；未拜，改授云麾将军、南徐州刺史。
四年，徙为使持节、都督雍、梁、南北秦四州郢州之竟陵司州之随郡诸军事，平西将军、宁蛮校尉、雍州刺史。
五年，进号安北将军。
七年，权进都督荆、益、南梁三州诸军事。
translation: 
Emperor Taizong's Jianwen was named Gang, with the courtesy name Shizuan and the nickname Liutong. He was the third son of Emperor Gaozu and the half-brother of Prince Zhaoming.
He was born in Xianyang Hall on October 28th, the second year of Tianjian.
In the fifth year of Tianjian's reign, he was granted the title of King of Jin'an and had a settlement of 8,000 households.
In the eighth year of Tianjian's reign, he was appointed General Yunhui, leading the military garrison in Shitou, and considered setting up advisers.
In the ninth year of Tianjian, he was promoted to envoy Chijie, governor of the military affairs of the five states of southern and northern Yanzhou, Qing, Xu, and Hebei, general Xuanyi, and governor of southern Yanzhou.
In the twelfth year of Tianjian, he was appointed as General Hui and Danyang Yin.
In the thirteenth year of Tianjian, he was appointed as envoy Chijie, commander-in-chief of the military affairs of the seven states of Jing, Yong, Liang, Southern and Northern Qin, Yi, and Ning. He was also the captain of the Southern Barbarians and the governor of Jingzhou. He remained the general.
In the 14th year of Tianjian's reign, he was transferred to be the commander-in-chief of Jiangzhou's military affairs, General Yunhui, and Jiangzhou governor, and his integrity remained unchanged.
In the 17th year of Tianjian's reign, he was recruited as General Xizhonglang to lead the military garrison in Shitou. Soon he was appointed General Xuanhui and Danyang Yin, as well as Shizhong.
In the first year of Fongfeng, he was appointed as envoy Chijie, governor of Yi, Ning, Yong, Liang, Southern, Northern Qin, and Shaqizhou armies, and governor of Yizhou. Before he took office, he was appointed General Yunhui and governor of Southern Xuzhou.
In the ordinary four years, he was transferred to the envoy Chijie, the governor of the four prefectures of Yong, Liang, Southern and Northern Qin, as well as the military affairs of Jingling and Sizhou Suijun in Yingzhou, the general of Pingxi, the captain of Ningman, and the governor of Yongzhou.
In ordinary five years, he was promoted to General Anbei.
In the seventh year of ordinary life, he was promoted to the commander-in-chief and commanded the military affairs of Jing, Yi and Nanliang states.

summary:
summary line 0: Emperor Taizong, named Gang, was the third son of Emperor Gaozu and half-brother of Prince Zhaoming. Born in Xianyang Hall in 464 AD, he was granted the title King of Jin'an in 467 AD with 8,000 households. Over the years, he held various military and civil posts, including General Yunhui, governor of multiple states, and commander-in-chief of military affairs. He was appointed crown prince in 531 AD after Prince Zhaoming's death and became emperor in 549 AD upon Emperor Gaozu's death.

Chunk 7: 
original: 
矫为太宗诏，禅于豫章嗣王栋，大赦改年。
遣使害南海王大临于吴郡，南郡王大连于姑孰，安陆王大春于会稽，新兴王大庄于京口。
冬十月壬寅，帝谓舍人殷不害曰： 吾昨夜梦吞土，卿试为我思之。
不害曰： 昔重耳馈塊，卒还晋国。
陛下所梦，得符是乎。
及王伟等进觞于帝曰： 丞相以陛下忧愤既久，使臣上寿。
帝笑曰： 寿酒，不得尽此乎？
于是并赉酒肴、曲项琵琶，与帝饮。
帝知不免，乃尽酣，曰： 不图为乐一至于斯！
既醉寝，伟乃出，俊进土囊，王修纂坐其上，于是太宗崩于永福省，时年四十九。
贼伪谥曰明皇帝，庙称高宗。
明年，三月癸丑，王僧辩率前百官奉梓宫升朝堂，世祖追崇为简文皇帝，庙曰太宗。
四月乙丑，葬庄陵。
初，太宗见幽絷，题壁自序云： 有梁正士兰陵萧世缵，立身行道，终始如一，风雨如晦，鸡鸣不已。
translation: 
The false edict of Emperor Taizong was passed on, and the Zen throne was given to Wang Dong, the heir of Yuzhang. All the convicted criminals in the country were commuted or exempted from their sentences, and their reign names were changed.
He sent people to kill Nanhai Wang Dalin in Wujun, Nanjun Wang Dalian in Gushu, Anlu Wang Dachun in Kuaiji, and Xinxing Wang Dazhuang in Jingkou.
On October 2nd in winter, Emperor Taizong said to his confidant Yin Buyai: I dreamed last night that I was swallowing dirt, and Aiqing tried to explain it to me.
Yin Buhui said: In the past, Chong'er accepted the donated clods of soil and eventually returned to the state of Jin.
Your Majesty, what you dreamed about was exactly this kind of auspicious talisman.
When Wang Wei and others toasted Emperor Taizong, they said: "I thought that Your Majesty has been worried and angry for a long time, so I offer you longevity wine."
Emperor Taizong smiled and said: "Shou wine can't fully express this state of mind!"
So they all presented them with fine wines, delicacies, music and pipa, and drank with Emperor Taizong.
Emperor Taizong knew that he was bound to die, so he got very drunk and said: I never thought that the joy of drunkenness could reach such a state!
When he was drunk and sleeping, Wang Wei and Peng Jun put a bag filled with soil on top of him, and Wang Zuan sat on the bag. In this way, Taizong died in Yongfu Province at the age of forty-nine.
The thieves posthumously named him "Emperor Ming", and the temple was called "Gaozong".
On March 21, the third year of Dabao, Wang Sengbian led hundreds of former officials to the Zi Palace and ascended to the imperial court. The ancestors worshiped him as "Emperor Jianwen" and the temple name was "Taizong".
On April 29th, he was buried in Zhuangling.
When Taizong was imprisoned, he narrated his life story on the wall: Lanling Xiao Shizuan, a man of integrity and integrity, established himself and pursued morality. From beginning to end, there was no change. The country was in turmoil and wars continued.

summary:
summary line 1: Upon ascending the throne, he issued edicts to reduce sentences, release northern slaves, and appoint officials. He faced challenges such as rebellions, famines, and invasions. In 550 AD, Hou Jing forced him to visit Xizhou and later proclaimed himself prime minister. Hou Jing deposed Taizong as King of Jin'an in 551 AD, imprisoned him, and killed many of his family members. Taizong died in Yongfu Province at age 49, suffocated by a bag of soil. He was posthumously named Emperor Ming, later changed to Emperor Jianwen.

Chunk 9: 
original: 
在襄阳拜表北伐，遣长史柳津、司马董当门，壮武将军杜怀宝、振远将军曹义宗等众军进讨，克平南阳、新野等郡，魏南荆州刺史李志据安昌城降，拓地千余里。
及居监抚，多所弘宥，文案簿领，纤毫不可欺。
引纳文学之士，赏接无倦，恒讨论篇籍，继以文章。
高祖所制《五经讲疏》，尝于玄圃奉述，听者倾朝野。
雅好题诗，其序云： 余七岁有诗癖，长而不倦。
然伤于轻艳，当时号曰 宫体 。
所著《昭明太子传》五卷，《诸王传》三十卷，《礼大义》二十卷，《老子义》二十卷，《庄子义》二十卷，《长春义记》一百卷，《法宝连璧》三百卷，并行于世焉。
史臣曰：太宗幼年聪睿，令问夙标，天才纵逸，冠于今古。
文则时以轻华为累，君子所不取焉。
translation: 
In Xiangyang, the Northern Expedition was launched, and several armies including Chief Shi Liujin, Sima Dong Dangmen, Zhuangwu General Du Huaibao, and Zhenyuan General Cao Yizong were dispatched to attack the enemy. They pacified Nanyang, Xinye and other counties. Li Zhi, the governor of Jingzhou in southern Wei, occupied Anchang City and surrendered, expanding his territory by more than a thousand miles.
When he was appointed to supervise the country and Fujun, he showed great tolerance and magnanimity. He was responsible for handling the case files without making any mistakes.
Attract and recruit literary people, never tire of appreciating and receiving them, often discuss books, and then write articles.
The "Explanations of the Five Classics" compiled by Emperor Gaozu was once recited in Xuanpu, and the audience was moved by both the government and the public.
Yahao wrote a poem, and his preface reads: I was addicted to poetry when I was seven years old, and I have never slacked off since I became an adult.
However, the injury was minor and it was called "uterine body" at that time.
He wrote five volumes of "The Biography of Prince Zhaoming", thirty volumes of "The Biography of the Kings", twenty volumes of "Li Dayi", twenty volumes of "Laozi Yi", twenty volumes of "Zhuangzi Yi", one hundred volumes of "Changchun Yiji", and three hundred volumes of "Magic Treasure Lianbi".
Shi Chen said: Taizong was smart and wise when he was young. His beautiful knowledge has been spread for a long time. His talents are beyond the past and present.
Because the article was influenced by the frivolous and flashy writing style of the time, it was not appreciated by gentlemen.

summary:
summary line 2: Taizong was exceptionally intelligent, able to compose at age six, and known for his broad-mindedness and literary talents. He wrote numerous works, including "The Biography of Prince Zhaoming" and "Changchun Yiji." Despite his virtues, he was controlled by traitors and met a tragic end.

