Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝成皇帝，元帝太子也。
母曰王皇后。元帝在太子宫生甲观画堂，为世嫡皇孙。
宣帝爱之，字曰太孙，常置左右。
年三岁而宣帝崩，元帝即位，帝为太子。
壮好经书，宽博谨慎。
初居桂宫，上尝急召，太子出龙楼门，不敢绝驰道，西至直城门，得绝乃度，还入作室门。
上迟之，问其故，以状对。上大说，乃著令，令太子得绝驰道云。
其后幸酒，乐燕乐，上不以为能。而定陶恭王有材艺，母傅昭仪又爱幸，上以故常有意欲以恭王为嗣。
赖侍中史丹护太子家，辅助有力，上亦以先帝尤爱太子，故得无废。
竟宁元年五月，元帝崩。
六月已未，太子即皇帝位，谒高庙。
尊皇太后曰太皇太后，皇后曰皇太后。
以元舅侍中卫尉阳平侯王凤为大司马大将军，领尚书事。
translation: 
Emperor Xiaocheng was the prince of Emperor Yuan.
His mother was Empress Wang. When Emperor Yuan was the crown prince, he was born into the emperor in the colorful painting hall of the palace and became his direct grandson.
Emperor Xuan liked him very much and named him Taisun. He often placed him under his knees.
When he was three years old, his grandfather Emperor Xuan died. Emperor Yuan succeeded to the throne and Emperor Cheng made him the prince.
As an adult, he likes to read scriptures, be broad-minded and cautious.
He used to live in Guigong, but Emperor Yuan sometimes summoned him urgently. When the prince left the Dragon Tower Gate, he did not dare to cross the emperor's galloping road. He went west to Zhicheng Gate, crossed in front of the city gate, and then turned back to Zuoshimen.
Emperor Yuan saw that he was late and asked why. Emperor Cheng told him that he did not dare to cross the Emperor's Chi Road and had to take a detour. Emperor Yuan was very happy and ordered that the Prince could cross the Chi Road.
Later, Emperor Yuan thought he was incompetent because he was fond of drinking and enjoying himself. Emperor Yuan decided that Prince Tao Gong was versatile and his mother, Fu Zhaoyi, was favored. Emperor Yuan wanted to make Prince Gong the crown prince.
Lai Shizhong Shi Xian protected the prince's family and provided strong assistance. Emperor Xuan of the Yuan Dynasty was spared from deposing because Emperor Xuan was particularly fond of the prince.
In May of the first year of Jingning, Emperor Yuan died.
On June 22, the prince ascended the throne and paid homage to Gaozu Temple.
The empress dowager is respected as the empress dowager, and the empress is the empress dowager.
Wang Feng, the Marquis of Yangping, the imperial uncle's imperial guard, was appointed as the Grand Sima and the Grand General, and was in charge of the secretarial affairs.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
乙未，有司言： 乘舆车、牛、马、禽兽皆非礼，不宜以葬。
奏可。
七月，大赦天下。
建始元年春正月乙丑，皇曾祖悼考庙灾。
立故河间王弟上郡库令良为王。
有星勃于营室。
罢上林诏狱。
二月，右将军长史姚尹等使匈奴还，去塞百余里，暴风火发，烧杀尹等七人。
官吏千石以下至二百石及宗室子有属籍者、三老、孝弟、力田、鳏、寡、孤、独钱、帛，各有差，吏民五十户牛、酒。
诏曰： 乃者火灾降于祖庙，有星孛于东方，始正而亏，咎孰大焉！
《书》云： 惟先假王正厥事。
群公孜孜，帅先百寮，辅朕不逮。
崇宽大，长和睦，凡事恕己，毋行苛刻。
其大赦天下，使得自新。
translation: 
On July 28, relevant personnel stated: It is indecent to be buried with chariots, cattle, horses, and animals and should not be buried with them.
Emperor Cheng agreed.
In July, there is a general amnesty.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the first year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, the emperor's great ancestor mourned a fire in the temple.
He made Kuling Liang, the brother of the deceased King of Hejian, the king of Shangjun.
A comet appears in the camp star area.
He was dismissed from Shanglin and sentenced to prison.
In February, when the right general Shi Yao Yin and others were on their way back from an envoy to the Huns, more than a hundred miles away from the frontier fortress, they suddenly encountered a storm and fire, which burned Yao Yin and seven others to death.
The princes, prime ministers, generals, princes, queen mothers, princesses, royal lords, and officials were rewarded with two thousand stones of gold. The officials of the clan were given less than one thousand stones to two hundred stones. The men of the clan who were famous in the genealogy, the three elders, the filial piety, the fields, the widows and the widows were all rewarded with money and silk, each with different levels. Fifty households of officials and people were rewarded with some cattle and wine.
The edict was issued: Fire fell in the ancestral temple, a comet appeared in the east, and God warned me when I ascended the throne. My fault was serious!
"Shangshu" says: In ancient times, when a wise king encountered disaster, he corrected his virtues and behaved according to the celestial phenomena.
I hope that all the ministers will work tirelessly and lead the staff to supplement my shortcomings.
Advocate tolerance, promote harmony, treat others favorably, and don't be harsh on others.
Now a general amnesty is being granted to the whole world, so that the criminals can rehabilitate themselves.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
封舅诸吏光禄大夫关内侯王崇为安成侯。
赐舅王谭、商、立、根、逢时爵关内侯。
夏四月，黄雾四塞，博问公卿大夫，无有所讳。
六月，有青蝇无万数集未央宫殿中朝者坐。
秋，罢上林宫、馆希御幸者二十五所。
八月，有两月相承，晨见东方。
九月戊子，流星光烛地，长四五丈，委曲蛇形，贯紫宫。
十二月，作长安南北郊，罢甘泉、汾阴祠。
是日大风，拔甘泉畤中大木十韦以上。
郡国被灾什四以上，毋收田租。
二年春正月，罢雍五畤。
辛已，上始郊祀长安南郊。诏曰： 乃者徙泰畤、后士于南郊、北郊，朕亲饬躬，郊祀上帝。皇天报应，神光并见。
三辅长无共张徭役之劳，赦奉郊县长安、长陵及中都官耐罪徒。
translation: 
He conferred the title of Marquis of Ancheng to his uncles, Guanglu Dafu, and Guannei Marquis Wang Chong.
His uncles Wang Tan, Wang Shang, Wang Li, Wang Gen and Wang Fengshi were given the title of Marquis of Guannei.
In the summer of April, with the yellow mist all around, I asked the ministers and officials extensively, hoping that nothing could be hidden.
In June, tens of thousands of bluebottle flies gathered at the courtiers' seats in Weiyang's palace.
In autumn, I went to the Shanglin Palace Hall to visit twenty-five places.
In August, two moons appear one above the other and appear in the east in the morning.
On September 28th, a shooting star shone brightly on the ground. It was four to five feet long, twisted and snake-shaped, and penetrated the Purple Palace star area.
In December, sacrifice places were built in the northern and southern suburbs of Chang'an, and then went to Ganquan and Fenyin to offer sacrifices to the temple.
On this day, a strong wind started and uprooted more than ten trees in Ganquan Temple.
Four out of ten counties were affected by wind disasters. Exemption from land rent in disaster areas.
In the first month of the spring of the second year of Jianshi, he went to five places in Yongdi to offer sacrifices to heaven and earth.
On the 23rd, Emperor Cheng began to conduct suburban sacrifices in the southern suburbs of Chang'an. He issued an edict: The former moved to the southern suburbs of Taiyuan, and the rear soil was moved to the southern and northern suburbs. I am pious and respectful, and the suburbs offer sacrifices to heaven. The emperor will retaliate and the divine light will appear.
The Sanfu area has year-round service, and pardons were given to criminals convicted of sideburns among officials in Chang'an County, Changling County and Zhongdu who worshiped in the suburbs.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
减天下赋钱，算四十。
闰月，以渭城延陵亭部为初陵。
二月，诏三辅内郡举贤良方正各一人。
三月，北宫井水溢出。
辛丑，上始祠后土于北郊。丙午，立皇后许氏。
罢六厩、技巧官。
夏，大旱。
东平王宇有罪，削樊、亢父县。
秋，罢太子博望苑，以赐宗室朝请者。
减乘舆厩马。
三年春三月，赦天下徒。
赐孝弟、力田爵二级。诸逋租赋所振贷勿收。
秋，关内大水。
七月，虒上小女陈持弓闻大水至，走入横城门，阑入尚方掖门，至未央宫钩盾中。
吏民惊上城。
九月，诏曰： 乃者郡国被水灾，流杀人民，多至千数。
京师无故讹言大水至，吏民惊恐，奔走乘城。
殆苛暴深刻之吏未息，元元冤失职者众。
translation: 
To reduce the tax money in the world, the tax is reduced by forty.
In the first month of leap year, the Yanling Pavilion in Weicheng was designated as the first mausoleum.
In February, the imperial edict was issued to each of the three auxiliary counties recommending a virtuous and upright person.
In March, water from the Beigong well burst out of the ground.
On March 14, Emperor Cheng began to offer sacrifices to Hou Tu in the northern suburbs of Chang'an. On March 19, Queen Xu was established.
Let's go to the Sixth Stable and the Skill Officer.
In summer, a severe drought occurred.
Wang Yu of Dongping was guilty and had his enfeoffment of Fan and Kangfu counties reduced.
In autumn, Prince Bowang Garden was revoked and given to the clan who came to Beijing to invite him.
Reduce the number of horses the emperor rides on.
In the spring and March of the third year, all prisoners in the world were pardoned.
He was awarded the second level of filial piety and land title, and the relief loan given to those who fled were exempted.
In autumn, there is a flood in the pass.
In the seventh month, Chen Chigong, a young girl from Mi Shang, heard that the flood was coming. She walked into the Hengcheng Gate, broke into the side door of the palace, and went to the official residence of Weiyang Palace.
The officials and the people all rushed to the city.
In September, an edict was issued saying: The former county suffered from floods and thousands of people drowned.
The capital made false rumors without reason that the flood was coming, and the officials and people were frightened and rushed to the city.
This may be the result of harsh and cruel officials resenting the people. The people suffered injustice and lost a lot, which led to these lies.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
遣谏大夫林等循行天下。
冬十二月戊申朔，日有蚀之。
夜，地震未央宫殿中。
诏曰： 盖闻天生众民，不能相治，为之立君以统理之。
君道得，则草木、昆虫咸得其所；人君不德，谪见天地，灾异娄发，以告不治。
朕涉道日寡，举错不中，乃戊申日蚀、地震，朕甚惧焉。
公卿其各思朕过失，明白陈之。 女无面从，退有后言。
丞相、御史与将军、列侯、中二千石及内郡国举贤良方正能直言极谏之士，诣公车，朕将览焉。
越巂山崩。
四年春，罢中书宦官，初置尚书员五人。
夏四月，雨雪。
五月，中谒者丞陈临杀司隶校尉辕丰于殿中。
秋，桃、李实。
大水，河决东郡金堤。
冬十月，御史大夫尹忠以河决不忧职，自杀。
河平元年春三月，诏曰： 河决东郡，流漂二州，校尉王延世堤塞辄平，其改元为河平。
赐天下吏民爵，各有差。
translation: 
Now he is sending admonitions to the great officials Lin and others to travel around the world.
On the first day of December in winter, there is a partial solar eclipse.
That night, there was an earthquake in Weiyang Palace.
The edict said: "I often hear that the people in the world are unable to govern themselves, so I set up a king to govern them."
If the king is virtuous, then the plants, trees and insects will find their proper place; if the king is not virtuous, then the heaven and the earth will be blamed, and disasters will appear repeatedly to warn them that they are not in accordance with the righteousness of governance.
I know too little about the way of kings, and my actions and measures are often inappropriate. So on December 1, a solar eclipse and an earthquake occurred at the same time, and I was deeply frightened.
Your Majesty should think carefully about my faults and point them out to me clearly. "Shang Shu" said: Don't obey Wei Wei in person, but there are slanderous words behind his back.
The prime minister, censors, generals, princes, Zhongerqianshi and the counties in the Central Plains region recommend virtuous, upright and outspoken people who can give the most advice to the government office and submit letters. I will personally read their books.
Zhao Xunshan collapsed.
In the spring of the fourth year, the eunuchs of Zhongshu were dismissed and five Shangshu were appointed.
In April, it snows.
In the fifth month, Chen Lin, the prime minister who was paying homage to the emperor, killed Yuan Feng, the captain of Sili School, in the palace.
In autumn, peaches and plums bear fruit.
The flood caused the Yellow River to burst at Jindi in Dongjun.
In the tenth month of winter, Yin Zhong, the imperial censor, committed suicide due to dereliction of duty in Hejue.
In the spring and March of the first year of Heping, an edict was issued saying: The Yellow River broke through Dongjun and flooded the two prefectures of Yan and Henan. Wang Yanshi, the school captain, blocked the mouth and re-embanked the Yellow River to return to its old course. The name was changed to Heping.
There are different levels of rewards for officials and people in the world.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
夏四月己亥晦，日有蚀之，既。
诏曰： 朕获保宗庙，战战栗栗，未能奉称。
传曰： 男教不修，阳事不得，则日为之蚀。
天著厥异，辜在朕躬。
公卿大夫其勉，悉心以辅不逮。
百寮各修其职，惇任仁人，退远残贼。陈朕过失，无有所讳。
大赦天下。
六月，罢典属国并大鸿胪。
秋九月，复太上皇寝庙园。
二年春正月，沛郡铁官治铁飞，语在《五行志》。
夏六月，封舅谭、商、立、根、逢时皆为列侯。
三年春二月丙戌，犍为地震、山崩、雍江水，水逆流。
秋八月乙卯晦，日有蚀之。
光禄大夫刘向校中秘书。谒者陈农使，使求遗书于天下。
四年春正月，匈奴单于来朝。
赦天下徒，赐孝弟、力田爵二级，诸逋租赋所振贷勿收。
二月，单于罢归国。
三月癸丑朔，日有蚀之。
translation: 
On April 30th in summer, the sun went from a partial to a total eclipse.
The edict was issued: I was able to inherit the ancestral temple, but I trembled and failed to perform my duties satisfactorily.
"The Biography" says: If the male education is deficient and the masculinity is weak, there will be a solar eclipse.
The sky shows a vision, and I am guilty.
The minister, the minister, tried his best to correct my mistakes.
All the officials fulfilled their duties, valued the wise, rejected evil, and pointed out my faults without hiding anything.
Amnesty to the world.
In June, the vassal state and Dahonglu institutions were cancelled.
In autumn and September, the emperor's dormitory temple and cemetery were restored.
In the first month of the spring of the second year, Tieguan of Pei County smelted Tie Fei, and his story was recorded in the "Five Elements Chronicles".
In the sixth month of summer, my uncles Wang Tan, Wang Shang, Wang Li, Wang Gen and Wang Fengshi were all made marquises.
On February 27th in the spring of the third year, there was an earthquake and landslide in Jianwei, blocking the river and causing the water to flow backwards.
On August 30th in autumn, a partial solar eclipse occurred.
Liu Xiang, the official of Guanglu, managed the imperial book collection and sent an audience to Chen Nong to ask for his legacy to the world.
In the first month of spring of the fourth year, the Xiongnu Chanyu came to Beijing to pay homage.
Pardon the prisoners in the world, reward filial piety with the second level of land title, and waive the loans owed for those who evade rent and tax.
In February, Shanyu returned to China after paying court.
On the first day of March, there is a partial solar eclipse.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
遣光禄大夫博士嘉等十一人行举濒河之郡水所毁伤困乏不能自存者，财振贷。
其为水所流压死，不能自葬，令郡国给槥櫝葬埋。
已葬者与钱，人二千。
避水它郡国，在所冗食之，谨遇以文理，无令失职。
举惇厚有行、能直言之士。
壬申，长陵临泾岸崩，雍泾水。
夏六月庚戌，楚王嚣薨。
山阳火生石中，改元为阳朔。
阳朔元年春二月丁未晦，日有蚀之。三月，赦天下徒。
冬，京兆尹王章有罪，下狱死。
二年春，寒。
诏曰： 昔在帝尧，立羲、和之官，命以四时之事，令不失其序。
故《书》云 黎民于蕃时雍 ，明以阴阳为本也。
今公卿大夫或不信阴阳，薄而小之，所奏请多违时政。
传以不知，周行天下，而欲望阴阳和调，岂不谬哉！
其务顺四时月令。
三月，大赦天下。
夏五月，除吏八百石、五百石秩。
秋，关东大水，流民欲入函谷、天井、壶口、五阮关者，勿苛留。
translation: 
He sent Dr. Guanglu, Dr. Jia and other eleven people to patrol the counties on both sides of the Yellow River to learn about those who were unable to survive due to floods and provide relief according to the situation.
Those who were drowned or crushed to death by water and were unable to bury themselves were ordered to be buried in thin coffins provided by the county.
Those who have been buried will be paid a discount of two thousand per person.
For those who have fled and are living in other places, food should be distributed from where they are. We must register and care for them carefully to prevent them from losing their regular business.
Recommend people who are honest, have high moral standards and can speak out.
On March 20, the bank of Changling near the Jingshui River collapsed, blocking the Jingshui River.
On the 29th day of the sixth lunar month in the summer, King Liu Xiao of Chu passed away.
Shan Yanghuo was born in the stone, and the name was changed to Yangshuo.
On the 30th day of the second spring of the first year of Yangshuo, there was a partial solar eclipse. In March, prisoners all over the world are pardoned.
In winter, Jingzhao Yin Wangzhang was found guilty and imprisoned to death.
The spring of the second year was cold.
The edict said: In ancient times, Emperor Yao established Xi and He as officials, and ordered them to take charge of the four seasons of heaven and earth, so that production and life can proceed in the order of seasons and seasons.
Therefore, "Shangshu" says: The people can adapt to changes and maintain peace and harmony. Explain that the yin and yang seasons are very important.
Today, some ministers and officials do not believe in yin and yang and think it is a trivial matter. Some of the memorials are inconsistent with the monthly order.
No one in power understands the yin and yang seasons, and the world is confused about them. Isn't it absurd to expect the harmony of yin and yang?
The ministers and officials are now ordered to pay attention to comply with the four seasons and monthly orders.
In March, there is a general amnesty.
In the fifth month of summer, the salary of officials was reduced from 800 shi to 600 shi, and from 500 shi to 400 shi.
In autumn, there is a flood in Guandong. If the people fleeing the famine want to enter Hangu, Tianji, Hukou, or Wuruan Pass, please do not stop them.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
遣谏大夫博士分行视。
八月甲申，定陶王康薨。
九月，奉使者不称。
诏曰： 古之立太学，将以传先王之业，流化于天下也。
儒林之官，四海渊原，宜皆明于古今，温故知新，通达国体，故谓之博士。
否则学者无述焉，为下所轻，非所以尊道德也。 工欲善其事，必先利其器。
丞相、御史其与中二千石、二千石杂举可充博士位者，使卓然可观。
是岁，御史大夫张忠卒。
三年春三月壬戌，陨石东郡，八。
夏六月，颍川铁官徒申屠圣等百八十人杀长吏，盗库兵，自称将军，经历九郡。
遣丞相长史、御史中丞逐捕，以军兴从事，皆伏辜。
秋八月丁已，大司马、大将军王凤薨。
translation: 
Doctors and doctors were sent to inspect various places.
On August 22, Liu Kang, King of Dingtao, passed away.
In September, some officials who were ordered to go on missions were not qualified for their duties.
The imperial edict stated: The reason why imperial courts throughout the ages have established Taixue is to spread the achievements of the ancestors and promote their teachings throughout the world.
Officials in the Confucian Academy of Sciences are required to be knowledgeable, be able to understand the past and present, review the past and learn new things, and use theories to answer the country's current major problems, so they are called doctors.
Otherwise, scholars will be despised by people if they do not have any incisive insights in knowledge, which will fail to achieve the purpose of respecting knowledge and morality. The Analects of Confucius says: If a worker wants to do his job well, he must first sharpen his tools.
The prime minister, censor, and Zhong Erqianshi and Erqianshi recommended candidates who could serve as doctoral candidates, making their role and status remarkable.
This year, the imperial censor Zhang Zhong passed away.
In the spring of the third year on March 7th, there were eight meteorites from Dongjun.
In the sixth month of the summer, one hundred and eighty people, including Yingchuan Iron Officer Shen Tusheng, killed the chief officials, stole weapons from the arsenal, claimed themselves to be generals, and rampaged across nine counties.
They sent Prime Minister Chang Shi and Yu Shi Zhongcheng to hunt him down, surrounded and suppressed them with troops, and beheaded them all to prove their guilt.
On the 30th day of the eighth month of autumn, General Wang Feng, the great Sima general, passed away.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
四年春正月，诏曰： 夫《洪范》八政，以食为首，斯诚家给刑错之本也。
先帝劭农，薄其租税，宠其强力，令与孝弟同科。
间者，民弥惰怠，乡本者少，趋末者众，将何以矫之？
方东作时，其令二千石勉劝农桑，出入阡陌，致劳来之。
《书》不云乎？ 服田力啬，乃亦有秋。
其之哉！
二月，赦天下。
秋九月壬申，东平王宇薨。
闰月壬戌，御史大夫于永卒。
鸿嘉元年春二月，诏曰： 朕承天地，获保宗庙，明有所蔽，德不能绥，刑罚不中，众冤失职，趋阙告诉者不绝。
是以阴阳错谬，寒暑失序，日月不光，百姓蒙辜，朕甚闵焉。
《书》不云乎？ 即我御事，罔克耆寿，咎在厥躬。
translation: 
In the first month of spring of the fourth year, an edict was issued saying: "Shang Shu·Hong Fan" states that among the eight political affairs, food is the first. Because it is the basis for family self-sufficiency and non-violation of prohibitions.
The late emperor encouraged farming, collected taxes lightly, and rewarded those who worked hard in the fields, making them equal to filial piety.
Recently, farmers have become more and more lazy. Few are concerned about farming and more are engaged in business. How can this be corrected?
During spring plowing, two thousand stones were ordered to encourage farmers to go deep into the farmland and encourage farmers to work hard in agricultural production.
Didn't "Shang Shu" say that? Only by working hard can you reap the harvest in autumn.
Everyone should work hard!
In February, there is a general amnesty.
On September 16th in autumn, Liu Yu, King of Dongping, passed away.
On the seventh day of the twelfth lunar month, Yu Yong, the imperial censor, passed away.
In the spring and February of the first year of Hongjia's reign, an edict was issued saying: "I have inherited the grace of heaven and earth to protect the ancestral temple. However, I am not clear enough to carefully examine the people's conditions, and my virtue is not enough to appease the four directions." The punishment was inappropriate and many people lost their regular jobs due to injustice. There was a constant stream of appeals to the court.
Therefore, the yin and yang are wrong, the cold and heat are out of order, the sun and the moon have no light, and the people suffer disasters, I am deeply disturbed.
Didn't "Shang Shu" say that? When I was presiding over the affairs of the country, there was no veteran minister or sage to assist me. This was my own fault.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
方春生长时，临遣谏大夫理等举三辅、三河、弘农冤狱。
公卿大夫、部刺史明申敕守、相，称朕意焉。
其赐天下民爵一级，女子百户牛、酒，加赐鳏、寡、孤、独、高年帛。逋贷未入者勿收。
壬午，行幸初陵，赦作徒。
以新丰戏乡为昌陵县，奉初陵，赐百户牛、酒。
上始为微行出。
冬，黄龙见真定。
二年春，行幸云阳。
三月，博士行饮酒礼，有雉蜚集于庭，历阶升堂而雊，后集诸府，又集承明殿。
诏曰： 古之选贤，傅纳以言，明试以功。故官无废事，下无逸民，教化流行，风雨和时，百谷用成，众庶乐业，咸以康宁。
朕承鸿业十有余年，数遭水、旱、疾疫之灾，黎民娄困于饥寒，而望礼义之兴，岂不难哉！
朕既无以率道，帝王之道日以陵夷，意乃招贤选士之路郁滞而不通与，将举者未得其人也？
其举敦厚有行义、能直言者，冀闻切言嘉谋，匡朕之不逮。
translation: 
It is now the spring plowing season, and we have sent special officials to admonish the officials and others to investigate the unjust imprisonment of Sanfu, Sanhe, and Hongnong.
The ministers, ministers and governors should instruct the governors and prime ministers to live up to the great trust I have placed in them.
Now I will reward you with the first level of civil nobility in the world, a certain amount of cattle and wine for a woman from a hundred households, and a certain amount of silk for a widower and a lonely old man. Those who have escaped from the loan and have not paid it will be exempted.
On February 28, Emperor Cheng came to Chuling and pardoned the criminals who served in Chuling.
The opera township of Xinfeng County was designated as Changling County to commemorate Chuling, and every 100 households were rewarded with a certain amount of cattle and wine.
Emperor Cheng began to wear civilian clothes and ride in and out of the city alone with a small number of followers.
In winter, the yellow dragon appears in Zhending.
In the spring of the second year, I arrived in Yunyang.
In March, when the doctor was having a drinking ceremony, pheasants gathered in the palace courtyard, ascended the stairs and screamed loudly, then gathered in various government offices, and then gathered in Chengming Hall.
The edict said: In ancient times, when selecting talents, they first listened to their opinions and then put them on trial to test their abilities. Therefore, officials were very efficient, talents were not buried, education was popular, weather was smooth, grain harvests were good, people lived and worked in peace and contentment, and the masses were peaceful and peaceful.
I have inherited the great cause for more than ten years, and I have been hit by floods, droughts and plagues many times, and the people are often trapped in hunger and cold. How difficult it would be to expect the people to practice courtesy and respect honor and disgrace!
My inability to lead has led to the decline of the emperor's way. I have thought again and again: Is this the road to recruiting talents and selecting officials that is blocked? Or is the recommended person not worthy of his name?
I hope to recommend people who are honest, virtuous and can speak out. I hope to hear their profound insights and good strategies to help me with my shortcomings.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
夏，徒郡国豪杰赀五百万以上五千户于昌陵。
赐丞相、御史、将军、列侯、公主、中二千石冢地、第宅。
六月，立中山宪王孙云客为广德王。
三年夏四月，赦天下。
令吏民得买爵，贾级千钱。
大旱。
秋八月乙卯，孝景庙阙灾。
冬十一月甲寅，皇后许氏废。
广汉男子郑躬等六十余人攻官寺，篡囚徒，盗库兵，自称山君。
四年春正月，诏曰： 数敕有司，务行宽大，而禁苛暴，讫今不改。
一人有辜，举宗拘系，农民失业，怨恨者众，伤害和气，水旱为灾，关东流冗者众，青、幽、冀部尤剧，朕甚痛焉。
未闻在位有恻然者，孰当助朕忧之！
已遣使者循行郡国。被灾害什四以上，民赀不满三万，勿出租赋。
逋贷未入，皆勿收。
流民欲入关，辄籍内。
所之郡国，谨遇以理，务有以全活之。
思称朕意。
秋，勃海、清河河溢，被灾者振贷之。
translation: 
In the summer, 5,000 households with wealth of more than 5 million yuan were moved to Changling.
The prime minister, censors, generals, princes, and princesses were rewarded with two thousand stones and a cemetery and house in Changling.
In June, Sun Liu Yunke, the Xianwang of Zhongshan, was appointed King of Guangde.
In the summer and April of the third year, the world will be pardoned.
The officials and the people can buy nobles, and the price of each level is one thousand yuan.
A major drought occurs.
On August 15th in autumn, a fire broke out at the gate of Emperor Xiaojing's temple.
On November 17th in winter, Queen Xu was deposed.
Zheng Gong, a man from Guanghan, and more than 60 people attacked the government office, released the prisoners, stole weapons from the arsenal, and called himself a tiger.
In the spring and first month of the fourth year, an edict was issued saying: The relevant agencies have been instructed many times to be lenient and prohibit harsh punishments, but they have not changed yet.
If one person commits a crime, the entire clan will be imprisoned. Farmers will lose their regular business, and there will be many people who are resentful. This will damage the harmony of heaven and earth. Floods and droughts will cause disasters, and there will be many people scattered in Guandong. Qingzhou, Youzhou, and Jizhou are even more serious. I am very sad.
But I haven’t heard anyone in office expressing sadness about this. Who can share my worries?
Envoys have been sent to various places to check. If the disaster is more than 40% and the assets of the people are less than 30,000 yuan, they do not need to rent taxes.
Those who evade taxes and have not paid them will be exempted.
If refugees want to enter the customs, they will be allowed to enter after registering.
The counties and counties where the refugees go must provide care and guidance, and ensure that no one dies from cold or hunger.
Hope you understand my thoughts.
In autumn, floods occurred in Bohai and Qinghe, and relief loans were provided to the affected areas.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
冬，广汉郑躬等党与浸广，犯历四县，众且万人。
拜河东都尉赵护为广汉太守，发郡中及蜀郡合三万人击之。
或相捕斩，除罪。
旬月平，迁护为执金吾，赐黄金百斤。
永始元年春正月癸丑，太官凌室火。
戊午，戾后园阙火。
夏四月，封婕妤赵氏父临为成阳侯。
五月，封舅曼子侍中骑都尉光禄大夫王莽为新都侯。
六月丙寅，立皇后赵氏。
大赦天下。
秋七月，诏曰： 朕执德不固，谋不尽下，过听将作大匠万年言昌陵三年可成。
作治五年，中陵、司马殿门内尚未加功。
天下虚耗，百姓罢劳，客土疏恶，终不可成。
朕惟其难，怛然伤心。
夫 过而不改，是谓过矣 。
其罢昌陵，及故陵勿徒吏民，令天下毋有动摇之心。
立城阳孝王子俚为王。
八月丁丑，太皇太后王氏崩。
二年春正月己丑，大司马车骑将军王音薨。
translation: 
In the winter, Guanghan Zheng Gong and other party members gradually developed and attacked four counties, with tens of thousands of people.
Zhao Hu, the captain of Hedong Province, was appointed as the prefect of Guanghan, and a total of 30,000 soldiers from Guanghan County and Shu County were recruited to carry out encirclement and suppression.
He also called on Zheng Gong's troops to kill each other internally, so that their merits could be offset by their crimes.
It was settled in ten and a half months. Zhao Hu was promoted to the official of Jin Wu and given eight hundred catties of gold.
On the 22nd day of the first spring of the first year of Yongshi, a fire broke out in the Ling room of the eunuch.
On the 27th, a fire also broke out at the main entrance of Lihouyuan.
In April of summer, Jieyu and Zhao's father, Zhao Lin, were granted the title of Marquis of Chengyang.
In May, he made his uncle Wang Man's son Shizhongqi Duwei and Guanglu doctor Wang Mang the new capital lords.
On June 7, Queen Zhao was established.
Amnesty to the world.
In the seventh month of Autumn, an edict was issued saying: I am not determined enough to be virtuous, and cannot fully brainstorm ideas with my ministers. I overly listen to the great craftsman Jie Wannian's words that Changling can be built in three years.
After five years of construction, the Zhongling Tomb and Sima Palace Gate have not yet started, and the national treasury has spent a lot of money.
The people were exhausted, and the soil brought from other places to build the mausoleum was loose and messy, making it difficult to build Changling mausoleum.
I feel sad when I think of the project that wastes so much money and people.
The ancients said that if you don't correct your mistakes, small mistakes will become big mistakes.
It is now decided to stop the construction of Changling, and the five thousand households that were originally scheduled to move to Changling will no longer move, so that the world will not have the wavering heart to leave their hometown.
Prince Liu Li of Chengyang was made king.
On August 19, the Empress Dowager Wang passed away.
On the third day of the first lunar month of the second year of spring, Wang Yin, the general of the Great Sima Chariot, passed away.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
二月癸未夜，星陨如雨。
乙酉晦，日有蚀之。
诏曰： 乃者，龙见于东莱，日有蚀之。天著变异，以显朕邮，朕甚惧焉。
公卿申敕百寮，深思天诫，有可省减便安百姓者，条奏。
所振贷贫民，勿收。
又曰： 关东比岁不登，吏民以义收食贫民、入谷物助县官振赡者，已赐直，其百万以上，加赐爵右更，欲为吏，补三百石，其吏也，迁二等。
三十万以上，赐爵五大夫，吏亦迁二等，民补郎。
十万以上，家无出租赋三岁。
万钱以上，一年。
冬十一月，行幸雍，祠五畤。
translation: 
On February 28th, stars fell like rain.
On the 30th, there was a partial eclipse of the sun.
The edict was issued saying: Not long ago, the dragon appeared in Donglai, and there was a partial eclipse of the sun. The sky showed changes to show my fault, and I was deeply frightened.
The ministers should tell their officials to seriously consider the warnings shown by heaven. Opinions on how to reduce taxes and levies for the convenience of the people can be reported one by one.
Money and food loaned to the poor will be exempted.
He also said: The harvest in Guandong has been poor for several years, and some officials and people gave food to the poor out of righteousness, or donated grain to help the county magistrates provide relief, and the officials should pay back the money according to the price. For those with a number of more than one million, they will be given a title of right rank. If they have already paid 300 shi for an official, they will be promoted to the second level.
If the number is more than 300,000, they will be given the rank of five officials, the officials who were already officials will be promoted to the second level, and the ordinary people will be supplemented by the rank of Langguan.
Those with a number of more than 100,000 will be exempted from rent for three years.
Those with more than 10,000 yuan will be exempted from rent for one year.
In the eleventh month of winter, I came to Yongdi and offered sacrifices to the five emperors.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
十二月，诏曰： 前将作大匠万年知昌陵卑下，不可为万岁居，奏请营作，建置郭邑，妄为巧作，积土增高，多赋敛徭役，兴卒暴之作。
卒徒蒙辜，死者连属，百姓罢极，天下匮谒。常侍闳前为大司农中丞，数奏昌陵不可成。
侍中卫尉长数白宜早止，徙家反故处。
朕以长言下闳章，公卿议者皆合长计。
长首建至策，闳典主省大费，民以康宁。
闳前赐爵关内侯，黄金百斤。
其赐长爵关内侯，食邑千户，闳五百户。
万年佞邪不忠，毒流众庶，海内怨望，至今不息，虽蒙赦令，不宜居京师。其徙万年敦煌郡。
是岁，御史大夫王骏卒。
三年春正月乙卯晦，日有蚀之。
诏曰： 天灾仍重，朕甚惧焉。
惟民之失职，临遣太中大夫嘉等循行天下，存问耆老，民所疾苦。
其与剖刺史举惇朴逊让有行义者各一人。
translation: 
In December, an edict was issued saying: General Xie Wannian, who had been a master craftsman for ten thousand years, knew that the terrain of Changling was low and could not be used as the emperor's mausoleum, but he petitioned to build a mausoleum here and build a city to support the mausoleum. He acted cunningly and deceitfully, transporting earth from other places to raise the foundation, wasting money and manpower, rushing to get started, and eager for success, so that the soldiers who participated in the construction were tortured and caused a large number of deaths.
The people were extremely tired and the treasury was depleted. Wang Hong, the constant servant, was the chief minister of Nongzhongcheng before. He reported many times that Changling could not be built.
Lieutenant Chun Yuchang suggested several times that the construction should be stopped as soon as possible and the relocated households should be returned to their original places.
Because of Chunyu Chang's suggestion, I sent Wang Hong's memorial to the ministers for discussion. After discussion, the ministers agreed with Chunyuchang.
Chunyu took the initiative to establish the correct strategy, and Wang Hong took charge of money, grain and employment to reduce losses and waste, so that the people could live in peace and prosperity.
I have previously given Wang Hongjue the title of Marquis of Guannei and a hundred catties of gold.
Chunyu is now granted the title of Marquis of Guannei by Changjue, with a settlement of 1,000 households and Wang Hong of 500 households.
Jie has been flattering and disloyal for thousands of years, harming the people, and the complaints continue to this day. Although his crime was pardoned, he should not live in the capital. It was decided to move Xie Wannian to Dunhuang County.
This year, Wang Jun, the imperial censor, passed away.
On the 30th day of the first lunar month in the third year of spring, a partial solar eclipse occurred.
The edict was issued saying: Natural disasters have occurred many times, and I am deeply frightened.
Worrying that the people would lose their usual jobs, he specially sent officials such as Jia and other officials to travel around the world, asking the elderly and virtuous people to understand the sufferings of the people.
Together with the governor of the same department, we can recommend one person who is honest, honest and virtuous.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
冬十月庚辰，皇太后诏有司复甘泉泰畤、汾阴后土、雍五畤、陈仓陈宝祠。
语在《郊祀志》。
十一月，尉氏男子樊并等十三人谋反，杀陈留太守，劫略吏民，自称将军。
徒李谭等五人共格杀并等，皆封为列侯。
十二月，山阳铁官徒苏令等二百二十八人攻杀长吏，盗库兵，自称将军，经历郡国十九，杀东郡太守、汝南都尉。
遣丞相长史、御史中丞持节督趣逐捕。汝南太守严讠斤捕斩令等。
近为大司农，赐黄金百斤。
四年春正月，行幸甘泉，郊泰畤，神光降集紫殿。大赦天下。赐云阳吏民爵，女子百户牛、酒、鳏、寡、孤、独、高年帛。
三月，行幸河东，祠后士，赐吏民如云阳，行所过无出田租。
夏四月癸未，长乐临华殿、未央宫东司马门皆灾。
六月甲午，霸陵园门阙灾。
出杜陵诸未尝御者归家。
诏曰： 乃者，地震京师，火灾娄降，朕甚惧之。
translation: 
On the fifth day of the tenth lunar month in winter, the Empress Dowager ordered relevant institutions to restore Ganquan Taiji, Fenyin Houtu, Yongwuji, and Chencang Chenbao Temples.
The incident is recorded in "Jiao Si Zhi".
In November, Fan Bing, a man from Weishi County, and 13 other people rebelled. They killed the prefect Chenliu, plundered the officials and people, and called himself a general.
The criminal Li Tan and other five people fought hard to kill Fan Bing and others, and they were all granted the title of marquis.
In December, Su Ling, a disciple of the Shanyang iron officer, and other 228 people attacked and killed the chief officials, stole weapons from the arsenal, called himself a general, attacked and plundered 19 prefectures, and killed the prefect of Dongjun and the captain of Runan.
The imperial court sent Prime Minister Chang Shi and Yu Shi Zhongcheng to hold Fu Jie to supervise the pursuit. Runan Prefect Yan Jinjin arrested and executed Su Ling and others.
Yan Yanjin was promoted to the rank of Chief Agriculture Officer, and he was given five hundred catties of gold.
In the first month of spring of the fourth year, I came to Ganquan and offered sacrifices to the Thai people in the suburbs. The divine light descended and appeared in the Purple Palace, granting amnesty to the world, and rewarding Yunyang officials and people with titles, a certain amount of cattle and wine for every 100 households of women, and a certain amount of silk for widows and widowers.
In the third month, he came to the east of Hedong, offered sacrifices to Hou Tu, and rewarded the officials and people in the same way as in Yunyang. No land was rented in the place where the imperial driver passed.
On the 11th day of the fourth lunar month in the summer, fires broke out in the Linhua Hall of Changle and the East Sima Gate of Weiyang Palace.
On June 23, there was a fire at the main entrance of Ba Cemetery.
Send Du Ling's concubine who has not yet entered the palace back to her hometown.
The edict was issued: In the former case, there was an earthquake in the capital and fires occurred frequently. I was very frightened.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
有司其悉心明对厥咎，朕将亲览焉。
又曰： 圣王明礼制以序尊卑，异车服以章有德，虽有其财，而无其尊，不得逾制，故民兴行，上义而下利。
方今世俗奢僭罔极，靡有厌足。
公卿列侯亲属近臣，四方所则，未闻修身遵礼，同心忧国者也。
或乃奢侈逸豫，务广第宅，治园池，多畜奴婢，被服绮縠，设钟鼓，备女乐，车服、嫁娶、葬埋过制。吏民慕效，浸以成俗，而欲望百姓俭节，家给人足，岂不难哉！
《诗》不云乎？ 赫赫师尹，民具尔瞻。
司隶校尉察不变者。
秋七月辛未晦，日有蚀之。
translation: 
I hope that the relevant ministers will try their best to point out my mistakes, and I will read the memorial myself.
The edict also said: The ancient holy kings prescribed etiquette to order the superior and the inferior, and marked the carriage and uniforms to commend the virtuous. Although you have money but no respect, you must not go beyond the rules of etiquette. Therefore, people pay attention to their own virtues and value righteousness more than profit.
Today's world is full of extravagance and arrogance, and there is no sense of satisfaction.
The ministers, princes, relatives and ministers are the role models for the officials and the people in the four directions. It is rare to hear that among these people, they can cultivate themselves, obey the etiquette, and care about the country.
Some are extravagant and greedy for comfort, and focus on building fields and houses, building villas, keeping livestock and maids, wearing silk and satin, setting up bells and drums in the courtyard, playing female music at home, and going beyond etiquette in carriages, clothing, marriages and burials. The officials and the people envy and imitate them, gradually forming a bad habit of profligacy and waste. How difficult it would be to expect the people to be thrifty to ensure that they have enough food and clothing!
Didn't "Poetry" say it? Majestic Grand Master, the people are looking up to you!
We are now specifically instructing the relevant agencies to restrain and prohibit this extravagant and excessive trend. The two colors of green and green are the common clothes of the people and do not need to be banned.
The princes and ministers should reflect on themselves and make corrections in time, and the Sili Xiaowei should investigate and deal with those who violate the prohibition. On July 30th in autumn, there will be a partial eclipse of the sun.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
元延元年春正月己亥朔，日有蚀之。三月，行幸雍，祠五畤。
夏四月丁酉，无云有雷，声光耀耀，四面下至地，昏止。
赦天下。
秋七月，有星孛于东井。
诏曰： 乃者，日蚀、星陨，谪见于天，大异重仍。在位默然，罕有忠言。
今孛星见于东井，朕甚惧焉。
公卿大夫、博士、议郎其各悉心，惟思变意，明以经对，无有所讳。
与内郡国举方正能直言极谏者各一人，北边二十二郡举勇猛知兵法者各一人。
封萧相国后喜为酂侯。
冬十二月辛亥，大司马大将军王商薨。
是岁，昭仪赵氏害后宫皇子。
二年春正月，行幸甘泉，郊泰畤。
三月，行幸河东，祠后土。
夏四月，立广陵孝王子守为王。
冬，行幸长杨宫，从胡客大校猎。宿萯阳宫，赐从官。
三年春正月丙寅，蜀郡岷山崩，雍江三日，江水竭。
translation: 
On the first day of the first month of the first year of Yuanyan, there was a partial solar eclipse. In the third month, he came to Yong and offered sacrifices to the five emperors.
On the first day of April in summer, there were no clouds but thunder, and lightning flashed from all directions to the ground until dusk.
Forgive the world.
In autumn and July, the comet appeared in the Dongjing star area.
The edict said: In the former case, when the sun eclipses and the stars fall, heaven will take responsibility for it, and the heaven and earth will continue to mutate, but the ministers in power are silent and rarely offer loyal advice.
The comet appeared in Dongjing today, and I was deeply frightened.
The ministers, doctors, and ministers should all understand my painstaking efforts. Think carefully about the reasons for the change of heaven and earth, point it out to me clearly, and do not hide anything; you must recommend to each county in the Central Plains one person who is upright and can speak out and give advice.
Each of the twenty-two counties in the border region recommends one person who is brave and knowledgeable in the art of war.
After Xiao He was granted the title of Prime Minister, Xiao happy was made Marquis of Fou.
On November 18th in winter, Great Sima General Wang Shang passed away.
This year, the Zhao family of Zhaoyi killed the prince in the imperial palace.
In the first month of the spring of the second year, I came to Ganquan and offered sacrifices to Mount Tai in the suburbs.
In March, he came to Hedong to offer sacrifices to Hou Tu.
In April of summer, Liu Shou, Prince Xiao of Guangling, was made king.
In winter, he came to Changyang Palace to review military exercises with the foreign guests who came to Beijing to see him. He stayed in Fuyang Palace and rewarded the accompanying officials.
On the tenth day of the first lunar month in the spring of the third year, Minshan Mountain in Shu County collapsed, blocking the river for three days and cutting off the flow of the downstream river.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
二月，封侍中卫尉淳于长为定陵侯。
四年春正月，行幸甘泉，郊泰畤。
二月，罢司隶校尉官。
甘露降京师，赐长安民牛、酒。
绥和元年春正月，大赦天下。
二月癸丑，诏曰： 朕承太祖鸿业，奉宗庙二十五年，德不能绥理宇内，百姓怨恨者众。不蒙天晁，至今未有继嗣，天下无所系心。
观于往古近事之戒，祸乱之萌，皆由斯焉。
定陶王欣于朕为子，慈仁孝顺，可以承天序，继祭祀。
其立欣为皇太子。
封中山王舅谏大夫冯参为宜乡侯，益中山国三万户，以慰其意。
赐诸侯王、列侯金，天下当为父后者爵，三老、孝弟、力田帛，各有差。
又曰： 盖闻王者必存二王之后，所以通三统也。
昔成汤受命，列为三代，而祭祀废绝。
translation: 
In February, Lieutenant Chun Yuchang was granted the title of Marquis of Dingling.
In the first month of spring of the fourth year, I came to Ganquan to offer sacrifices to the Thai people.
In February, Sili Xiaowei was dismissed.
The dew fell on the capital, and the people of Chang'an were rewarded with cattle and wine.
In the first month of spring in the first year of Suihe, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
On the 9th day of the second lunar month, an edict was issued saying: I have inherited Taizu's great legacy and have been worshiping the ancestral temple for twenty-five years. My virtue is not enough to stabilize the world. There are many people who are resentful and resentful. I have offended God. I have not yet given birth to a prince, and the world has no core to look up to.
Judging from the historical lessons of the past and present, the origin of disasters is often caused by the issue of successors.
Wang Xin of Dingtao is my heir. He is kind and filial. He can inherit the order of heaven and continue the sacrifice.
Now it is decided to make Xin the crown prince.
He granted the title of Marquis of Yixiang to the uncle of the King of Zhongshan, admonishing the official Feng Shen, and increased the number of households in Zhongshan by 30,000 to appease him.
The princes and princes were rewarded with gold, and the heirs of the father in the world were given titles, three elders, filial piety, and fields. The rewards were different.
The edict also said: I have heard that the king must preserve the descendants of the two kings of the previous dynasty, together with the current king himself, to symbolize the three unities of heaven, earth and man.
In the past, King Tang of Shang founded the country as emperor and listed the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties, but later the sacrifices were abolished.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
考求其后，奠正孔吉。其封吉为殷绍嘉侯。
三月，进爵为公，及周承休侯皆为公，地各百里。
行幸雍，祠五畤。
夏四月，以大司马票骑将军为大司马，罢将军官。
御史大夫为大司空，封为列侯。
益大司马、大司空奉如丞相。
秋八月庚戌，中山王兴薨。
冬十一月，立楚孝王孙景为定陶王。
定陵侯淳于长大逆不道，下狱死。
廷尉孔光使持节赐贵人许氏药，饮药死。
十二月，罢部刺史，更置州牧，秩二千石。
二月壬子，丞相翟方进薨。
丙戌，帝崩于未央宫。
皇太后诏有司复长安南北郊。
四月己卯，葬延陵。
赞曰：臣之姑充后宫为婕妤，父子昆弟侍帷幄，数为臣言：成帝善修容仪，升车正立，不内顾，不疾言，不亲指，临朝渊嘿，尊严若神，可谓穆穆天子之容者矣！
translation: 
According to the current examination of his descendants, only Kong Ji is the righteous one, and Kong Ji is specially named the Jiahou of Yin Shao.
In the third month, Jijue of Jin Kong was made a duke, and Tong and Zhou Chengxiu were both dukes, with jurisdiction over hundreds of miles each.
He came to Yongdi and offered sacrifices to the five emperors.
In the fourth month of summer, the General Hussars of the Great Sima was appointed as the Great Sima, and the general officer was dismissed.
The imperial censor was named Da Sikong and was granted the title of Liehou.
With the increase of Da Sima, Da Sikong's salary is the same as that of the Prime Minister.
On the ninth day of the eighth lunar month in autumn, Liu Xing, king of Zhongshan, passed away.
In the eleventh month of winter, Liu Jing, the grandson of King Xiao of Chu, was appointed King of Dingtao.
Chunyu, the Marquis of Dingling, grew up disobedient and was sentenced to death in prison.
Tingwei Kong Guang gave poisonous wine to the deposed queen Xu as an envoy, and he died after drinking the wine.
In December, he dismissed the governor of the Ministry and established the state pastoral office, with a salary of 2,000 shi.
On February 13th, Prime Minister Zhai Fangjin passed away.
On March 18, Emperor Cheng died in Weiyang Palace.
The Empress Dowager ordered relevant agencies to restore the northern and southern suburbs of Chang'an.
On April 11, he was buried in Yanling.
Ban Gu commented: Chen's aunt served as Jieyu in Emperor Cheng's harem. When the father and son brothers received and served her, she told me many times that Emperor Cheng paid great attention to appearance. Get on the car and stand upright, sit upright and look forward, calmly, not gesticulating, and solemn and deep before the court, like a god, which can be called the appearance of Emperor Mu Mu!


Chunk 19: 
original: 
博览古今，容受直辞。
公卿称职，奏议可述。遭世承平，上下和睦。
然湛于酒色，赵氏乱内，外家擅朝，言之可为於邑。
建始以来，王氏始执国命，哀、平短祚，莽遂篡位，盖其威福所由来者渐矣！
translation: 
Be knowledgeable about the past and understand the present, and adopt straightforward opinions.
The public officials are competent, their memorials are of impressive literary talent, and in times of peace and prosperity, there is harmony between the upper and lower levels.
However, because they indulged in drinking and sex, Sister Zhao Feiyan was in trouble in the inner palace, and the Wang family's relatives were specialized in government affairs, which is sighing to say.
Since the founding era, the Wang family has begun to control the state. Emperor Ai and Emperor Ping did not reign for long, and Wang Mang was able to usurp the throne. Probably the power of the Wang family gradually formed from the time he became emperor.


