Chunk 0: 
original: 
王商字子威，涿郡蠡吾人也，徙杜陵。
商公武、武兄无故，皆以宣帝舅封。
无故为平昌侯，武为乐昌侯。
语在《外戚传》。
商少为太子中庶子，以肃敬敦厚称。
父薨，商嗣为侯，推财以分异母诸弟，身无所受，居丧哀戚。
于是大臣荐商行可以厉群臣，义足以厚风俗，宜备近臣。
繇是擢为诸曹、侍中、中郎将。
元帝时，至右将军、光禄大夫。
是时，定陶共王爱幸，几代太子。
商为外戚重臣辅政，拥佑太子，颇有力焉。
元帝崩，成帝即位，甚敬重商，徙为左将军。
而帝元舅大司马大将军王凤颛权，行多骄僣。
商论议不能平凤，凤知之，亦疏商。
建始三年秋，京师民无故相惊，言大水至，百姓奔走相蹂躏、老弱号呼，长安中大乱。
天子亲御前殿，召公卿议。
大将军凤以为太后与上及后宫可御船，令吏民上长安城以避水。
群臣皆从凤议。
左将军商独曰： 自古无道之国，水犹不冒城郭。
今政治和平，世无兵革，上下相安，何因当有大水一日暴至？
此必讹言也，不宜令上城，重惊百姓。
上乃止。
有顷，长安中稍定，问之，果讹言。
上于是美壮商之固守，数称其议。
而凤大惭，自恨失言。
明年，商代匡衡为丞相，益封千户，天子甚尊任之。
为人多质有威重，长八尺余，身体鸿大，容貌甚过绝人。
河平四年，单于来朝，引见白虎殿。
丞相商坐未央廷中，单于前，拜谒商。
商起，离席与言，单于仰视商貌，大畏之，迁延却退。
天子闻而叹曰： 此真汉相矣！
translation: 
Wang Shang, named Ziwei, was originally from Liwu County, Zhuo County, and later moved to Duling.
Wang Shang's father, Wang Wu, and Wang Wu's brother were all granted the title for no reason because they were relatives of Emperor Xuan.
For no reason, he was granted the title of Marquis of Pingchang, and Wang Wu was granted the title of Marquis of Lechang.
These words are recorded in "The Biography of Wai Qi".
Wang Shang Shi Danfu Xi said that when Wang Shang was young, he was the concubine of the crown prince and was praised for his serious, respectful and loyal character.
After his father's death, Wang Shang succeeded his father as the Marquis of Lechang. He transferred his property and distributed it to his half-brothers. He left nothing behind, and he mourned during the mourning period.
So the minister recommended that the king's business can encourage the ministers, his benevolence and righteousness can make the customs honest, and he should be used as a close minister.
As a result, Wang Shang was promoted to the rank of lieutenant general among all the Cao officials.
During the reign of Emperor Yuan, he was promoted to General You and Doctor Guanglu.
At that time, King Dingtao was favored and almost replaced the prince.
As a relative and important minister, Wang Shang assisted the government and supported the prince, which played a great role.
After the death of Emperor Yuan, Emperor Cheng came to the throne. He respected Wang Shang very much and was appointed General Zuo.
When Emperor Cheng became emperor, his uncle Sima General Wang Feng took over all the power and acted too proudly.
Wang Shang could not treat Wang Feng fairly when discussing courtiers. Wang Feng knew about this and alienated Wang Shang.
In the autumn of the third year after the founding of the People's Republic of China, the people of Kyoto panicked for no reason. There were rumors that a flood was coming.
The emperor personally came to the front hall and summoned the ministers to discuss the matter.
General Wang Feng thought that the Queen Mother, the Emperor, and the concubines in the harem could take a boat, allowing officials and people to board the Chang'an city wall to avoid the flood.
All ministers obeyed Wang Feng's advice.
Only General Wang Shang of the Left said: Since ancient times, floods have never flooded the cities of countries without moral governance.
Now the political situation is stable, there have been no wars for generations, and the monarchs and ministers are in peace. Why would a flood suddenly appear in one day?
This must be Mi's words, and the people should not be allowed to go to the city wall to make the people even more panicked.
The emperor gave up because of this.
Soon, the city of Chang'an gradually settled down. After verification, it turned out to be true.
The emperor then greatly praised Wang Shang's insistence on staying behind and repeatedly praised his ideas.
Wang Feng was greatly ashamed and regretted his mistake in speaking.
The next year, Wang Shang replaced Kuang Heng as prime minister, and granted a title to a thousand households in the city. The emperor respected and trusted him very much.
Wang Shang was a simple man with a majestic appearance. He was more than eight feet tall, had a burly build, and had a majestic appearance. He was extraordinary.
In the fourth year of Heping's reign, Chanyu came to worship and was led to the White Tiger Hall to see him.
Prime Minister Wang Shang was sitting in the court of Weiyang Palace. Chanyu came forward to pay homage to Wang Shang.
Wang Shang stood up and left his seat to talk to him. Shan Yu looked up and saw Wang Shang's face. He was very frightened and walked out tremblingly.
When the emperor heard about it, he exclaimed: "You are worthy of being the prime minister of the Han Dynasty!"


Chunk 1: 
original: 
初，大将军凤连昏杨肜为琅邪太守，其郡有灾害十四，已上。
商部属按问，凤以晓商曰： 灾异天事，非人力所为。
肜素善吏，宜以为后。
商不听，竟奏免肜，奏果寝不下，凤重以是怨商，阴求其短，使人上书言商闺门内事。
天子以为暗昧之过，不足以伤大臣，凤固争，下其事司隶。
先是，皇太后尝诏问商女，欲以备后宫。
时女病，商意亦难之，以病对，不入。
及商以闺门事见考，自知为凤所中，惶怖，更欲内女为援，乃因新幸李婕妤家白见其女。
会日有蚀之，太中大夫蜀郡张匡，其人佞巧，上书愿对近臣陈日蚀咎。
下朝者左将军丹等问匡，对曰： 窃见丞相商作威作福，从外制中，取必于上，性残贼不仁，遣票轻吏微求人罪，欲以立威，天下患苦之。
前频阳耿定上书言商与父傅通，及女弟淫乱，奴杀其私夫，疑商教使。
章下有司，商私怨怼。
商子俊欲上书告商，俊妻左将军丹女，持其书以示丹，丹恶其父子乘迕，为女求去。
商不尽忠纳善以辅至德，知圣主崇孝，远别不亲，后庭之事皆爱命皇太后，太后前闻商有女，欲以备后宫，商言有固疾，后有耿定事，更诡道因李贵人家内女，执左道以乱政，诬罔悖大臣节，故应是而日蚀。
translation: 
At the beginning, Yang Wei, the in-law of General Wang Feng, was appointed as the prefect of Langye. Four out of ten of his counties suffered disasters and reported them to the emperor.
Wang Shang arranged for examination and interrogation in turn, and Wang Feng told Wang Shang: "Disasters and strange disasters are a matter of God and cannot be caused by human power."
Yang Wei has always been a good official and should be given a lighter sentence.
Wang Shang refused to listen and went so far as to submit a memorial requesting that Yang Wei be dismissed. As expected, the memorial was withheld and not released. Wang Feng became increasingly resentful of Wang Shang and secretly searched for Wang Shang's shortcomings and sent someone to submit a memorial to expose Wang Shang's family privacy.
The emperor believed that this was a private matter that did not need to be disclosed and was not enough to slander the minister. Wang Feng argued stubbornly and handed the matter over to Sili.
Previously, the Empress Dowager summoned Wang Shang to inquire about his daughter and wanted to include her in the harem.
At that time, Wang Shang's daughter was seriously ill. Wang Shang also thought this matter was very difficult, so he responded by saying that his daughter was seriously ill and did not allow his daughter to enter the harem.
When Wang Shang was questioned about family privacy, he knew that he had been slandered by Wang Feng. He was very frightened and wanted to offer his daughter as a rescue, so he relied on the report of the newly favored Li Jieyu family to get his daughter into the harem.
There happened to be another solar eclipse. Zhang Kuang, a Taizhong doctor from Shu County, was a treacherous and clever man. He presented a memorial saying that he was willing to respond to the ministers close to him and state the reasons for the solar eclipse.
After leaving the court, Zuo General Shi Dan and others asked Zhang Kuang. Zhang Kuang replied: I think Prime Minister Wang Shang is acting arrogantly and citing external forces to control the court. He must achieve what he wants. He is cruel and vicious, has no mercy, punishes crimes quickly, despises officials, privately seeks out the faults of others, and wants to use it to build up his prestige. People in the world regard him as a pain and disaster.
Geng Ding, a native of Pinyang, had previously written a memorial to expose Wang Shang's affair with his father's maid, as well as his sister's adultery. The slave killed her adulterer, suspecting Wang Shang's instigation.
The memorial was handed over to the Secretary for processing, and Wang Shang was privately dissatisfied.
Wang Shang's son Wang Jun wanted to file a memorial against Wang Shang. Wang Jun's wife was the daughter of Zuo General Shi Dan, so he took Wang Jun's memorial to Shi Dan. Shi Dan was disgusted with the conflict between the father and son and asked for a divorce for his daughter.
Wang Shang did not exhaust his loyalty and offered good advice to assist the virtuous monarch. He knew that the wise emperor respected filial piety, stayed away from women, and obeyed the empress dowager in matters concerning the harem. The empress dowager had heard that Wang Shang had a daughter and wanted to include her in the harem. Wang Shang claimed that his daughter had a disease that could not be cured for a long time. Later, Geng Ding wrote a letter, and violated the right rules and used Li Gui's family to introduce his daughter. Wang Shang practiced evil ways to disrupt the government, deceived people with false statements, and violated the ethics of ministers, so a solar eclipse occurred.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
《周书》曰： 以左道事君者诛。 《易》曰： 日中见昧，则折其右肱。
往者丞相周勃再建大功，及孝文时纤介怨恨，而日为之蚀，于是退勃使就国，卒无怵惕忧。
今商无尺寸之功，而有三世之宠，身位三公，宗族为列侯、吏二千石、侍中诸曹，给事禁门内，连昏诸侯王，权宠至盛。
审有内乱杀人怨怼之端，宜究竟考问。
臣闻秦丞相吕不韦见王无子，意欲有秦国，即求好女以为妻，阴知其有身而献之王，产始皇帝。
及楚相春申君亦见王无子，心利楚国，即献有身妻而产怀王。
自汉兴几遭吕、霍之患，今商有不仁之性，乃因怨以内女，其奸谋未可测度。
前孝景世七国反，将军周亚夫以为即得雒阳剧孟，关东非汉之有。
今商宗族权势，合赀巨万计，私奴以千数，非特剧孟匹夫之徒也。
且失道之至，亲戚畔之，闺门内乱，父子相讦，而欲使之宜明圣化，调和海内，岂不谬哉！
商视事五年，官职陵夷而大恶著于百姓，甚亏损盛德，有鼎折足之凶。
臣愚以为圣主富于春秋，即位以来，未有惩奸之威，加以继嗣未立，大异并见，尤宜诛讨不忠，以遏未然。
行之一人，则海内震动，百奸之路塞矣。
于是左将军丹等奏： 商位三公，爵列侯，亲受诏策为天下师，不遵法度以翼国家，而回辟下媚以进其私，执左道以乱政，为臣不忠，罔上不道，《甫刑》之辟，皆为上戮，罪名明白。
臣请诏谒者召商诣若卢诏狱。
translation: 
"Book of Zhou" says: Those who serve the monarch with evil ways should be killed. "Book of Changes" says: When the sun is obscured and darkened at noon, the right arm of the minister should be cut off.
In the past, the prime minister Zhou Bo had made great achievements twice, but when Emperor Xiaowen came, he had a slight resentment, which made the sun suffer. So Emperor Xiaowen dismissed Zhou Bo and let him return to his fiefdom. Finally, he no longer had any worries.
Now Wang Shang has no small achievements, but he has been favored by three generations of monarchs. He is ranked among the three princes, and his relatives are named princes. He is appointed as an official with two thousand stones, serving in the palace, serving in the palace, and marrying the princes and kings. His power, honor, and prosperity have reached its peak.
There are indeed reasons for internal adultery, instigating murder, and resentment, and they should be investigated and tortured.
I heard that Lu Buwei, the prime minister of Qin, saw that the King of Qin had no heirs and tried to take possession of Qin. He found a beautiful woman to be his wife. He secretly knew that she was pregnant, and then dedicated her to the King of Qin and gave birth to the First Emperor.
When Chun Shenjun, the prime minister of the Chu State, also saw that the King of Chu had no heirs, he thought that the Chu State was profitable, so he offered his pregnant wife to the King of Chu and gave birth to King Huai.
Since the rise of the Han Dynasty, they almost suffered disasters caused by Empress Lu and the Huo family. Now Wang Shang has a cruel and unkind nature, so he sacrificed his daughter out of resentment. His treacherous plot is unpredictable.
During the reign of Emperor Xing, seven kingdoms rebelled. General Zhou Yafu believed that even if Ju Meng, a man from Luoyang, was captured, the Kanto region would not be occupied by the Han Dynasty.
Now Wang Shang's relatives are numerous and powerful, their assets are measured in tens of millions, and their slaves are counted in thousands. It is not just people like Meng Dufu.
Moreover, he is extremely unruly. His relatives at home and abroad have betrayed him, he has committed adultery at home, and father and son are attacking each other. But it is not ridiculous to ask him to understand the teachings of the Holy Lord and coordinate the world. Isn't it ridiculous?
Wang Shang has been in office for five years. His position has declined and his evil deeds have been exposed to the people. This has greatly damaged the emperor's great virtue and has the omen of breaking the Jiuding foot.
I think that the wise Lord is in his prime, and since he succeeded to the throne, he has not had the authority to punish traitors. In addition, the heir to the throne has not yet been established, and strange phenomena have appeared. In particular, we should punish disloyal ministers to prevent disasters that have not yet become a reality.
If Wang Shang is punished, the world will be shaken, and the path of evil will be blocked.
So General Shi Dan of the Left and others reported: Wang Shang was ranked among the three Dukes, and was given the title of Marquis. He personally accepted the Shao Book and became the master of the world. He did not follow the legal system to support the Lord, but was deviant and flattery to realize his selfish desires. He practiced other evil ways to disturb the government. He was unfaithful as a minister and deceived the Lord. According to the law of "Fu Xing", he should be punished by death. The punishment is clearly stated.
I request you to issue an edict to summon Wang Shang to Ruolu's prison.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
上素重商，知匡言多险，制曰 勿治 。
凤固争之，于是制诏御史： 盖丞相以德辅翼国家，典领百寮，协和万国，为职任莫重焉。
今乐昌侯商为丞相，出入五年，未闻忠言嘉谋，而有不忠执左道之辜，陷于大辟。
前商女弟内行不修，奴贼杀人，疑商教使，为商重臣，故抑而不穷。
今或言商不以自悔而反怨怼，朕甚伤之。
惟商与先帝有外亲，未忍致于理。
其赦商罪。
使者收丞相印绶。
商免相三日，发病呕血薨，谥曰戾侯。
而商子弟亲属为驸马都尉、侍中、中常侍、诸曹大夫郎吏者，皆出补吏，莫得留给事宿卫者。
有司奏商罪过未决，请除国邑。
有诏长子安嗣爵为乐昌侯，至长乐卫尉、光禄勋。
商死后，连年日蚀、地震，直臣京兆尹王章上封事召开，讼商忠直无罪，言凤颛权蔽主。
凤竟以法诛章，语在《元后传》。
至元始中，王莽为安汉公，诛不附己者，乐昌侯安见被以罪，自杀，国除。
史丹字君仲，鲁国人也，徙杜陵。
祖父恭有女弟，武帝时为卫太子良娣，产悼皇考。
皇考者，孝宣帝父也。
宣帝微时依倚史氏。
语在《史良娣传》。
及宣帝即尊位，恭已死，三子，高、曾、玄。
曾、玄皆以外属旧恩封：曾为将陵侯，玄平台侯。
高侍中，贵幸，以发举反者大司马霍禹功封乐陵侯。
宣帝疾病，拜高为大司马、车骑将军，领尚书事。
帝崩，太子袭尊号，是为孝元帝。
高辅政五年，乞骸骨，赐安车驷马、黄金，罢就第。
薨，谥曰安侯。
自元帝为太子时，丹以父高任为中庶子，侍从十余年。
元帝即位，为驸马都尉侍中，出常骖乘，甚有宠。
上以丹旧臣，皇考外属，亲信之，诏丹护太子家。
是时，傅昭仪子定陶共王有材艺，子母俱爱幸，而太子颇有酒色之失，母王皇后无宠。
建昭之后，元帝被疾，不亲政事，留好音乐。
translation: 
The emperor always respected Wang Shang, and knowing that Zhang Kuang's words were sinister, he issued an order saying: "This should not be investigated."
Wang Feng argued stubbornly, and the emperor then ordered the censor: The prime minister should assist and support the emperor with virtue, command all officials, and coordinate various feudal states. There is no more important duty than this.
Now the Marquis of Lechang, Wang Shang, has been appointed prime minister and has served for five years. He has not listened to his sincere advice and good strategies, but he has committed the crime of disloyalty and practicing evil, and is guilty of a capital crime.
Previously, Wang Shang's sister did not practice women's virtues, and a domestic slave killed her lover. They suspected that Wang Shang had instigated it. Because Wang Shang was a minister in an important position, he restrained himself and did not pursue the case.
Now that someone has reported Wang Shang, he does not regret it, but instead harbors resentment. I am very sad.
Wang Shang was related to his late father and could not bear to send him to the judge.
Forgive Wang Shang's sins.
The envoy confiscated his Prime Minister's seal.
Three days after Wang Shang was deposed as prime minister, he suffered from an illness and vomited blood and died. He was named a violent marquis.
However, Wang Shang's relatives and descendants who served as Prince Consort, Shizhong, Zhongchangshi, and various Cao officials were all appointed as alternate officials, and no one could stay to serve as a guard.
A secretary reported that Wang Shang's crime had not yet been judged, and requested that Wang Shang be exempted from the fiefdom.
The emperor ordered Wang Shang's eldest son Wang An to inherit the title of Marquis of Lechang, and his official rank was Changle Palace Weiwei and Guanglu Xun.
After Wang Shang's death, there were consecutive solar eclipses and earthquakes for many years. The upright minister Jing Zhaoyin Wang Zhang was summoned to present a sealed memorial, avenging Wang Shang, saying that he was honest and upright and had no fault, and exposed Wang Feng's monopoly of power to deceive the Lord.
Wang Feng actually used the law to kill Wang Zhang. These words can be found in the "Biography of the Empress of the Yuan Dynasty" for details.
During the Hula period, Wang Ling became a violator and punished those who did not surrender to him. Wang An, the Marquis of Lechang, was charged with committing suicide and his fiefdom was removed.
Shi Dan, whose courtesy name was Junzhong, was originally from Lu and later moved to Duling.
Grandfather Shi Gong had a sister who was the concubine of Prince Wei during the reign of Emperor Wu, and gave birth to Emperor Mourning Kao.
Huang Kao was the father of Emperor Xuan.
When Emperor Xuan was poor and humble, he relied on the Shi family.
These words are recorded in "The Biography of Shi Liangdi".
By the time Emperor Xuan ascended the throne, Shi Gong was already dead and had three sons, Shi Gao, Shi Zeng, and Shi Xuan.
Both Shi Zeng and Shi Xuan were granted the title because they were relatives from their maternal family and had the kindness of their ancestors. Shi Zeng was granted the title of General Linghou, and Shi Xuan was granted the title of Platform Marquis.
Shi Gao served as a minister and was honored and favored. He was named the Marquis of Leling for his role in exposing the rebel commander Huo Yu.
Emperor Xuan was seriously ill and appointed Shi Gao as the Grand Sima Cavalry General and concurrently as the Minister.
When Emperor Xuan died, the prince inherited the title of emperor, creating Emperor Xiaoyuan.
Shi Gao assisted the government for five years. He asked to retire because of his old age. He was given a chariot drawn by four horses and brass, and was dismissed from his post and returned home.
After his death, he was honored as Anhou.
When Emperor Yuan became the crown prince, Shi Dan was appointed as the concubine because of his father Shi Gao, and he followed him for more than ten years.
After Emperor Yuan ascended the throne, Shi Dan was appointed Prince Consort Duwei's Attendant. The Emperor often rode on the right side of the carriage when traveling, and was very favored.
Because Shi Dan was a former minister and a relative of his late father's family, the emperor trusted him closely and ordered Shi Dan to protect the prince's family.
At that time, Fu Zhaoyi's son, King Dingtao, was talented, and both mother and son were favored. However, the prince had some faults in drinking and sex, and his mother, the Queen, was not favored.
During the Jianzhao period, Emperor Yuan fell ill and could not personally manage the affairs of the court. He was just greedy for music.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
或置鼙鼓殿下，天子自临轩槛上，隤铜丸以擿鼓，声中严鼓之节。
后宫及左右习知音者莫能为，而定陶王亦能之，上数称其材。
丹进曰： 凡所谓材者，敏而好学，温故知新，皇太了是也。
若乃器人于丝竹鼓鼙之间，则是陈惠、李微高于匡衡，可相国也。
于是上嘿然而笑。
其后，中山哀王薨，太子前吊。
哀王者，帝之少弟，与太子游学相长大。
上望见太子，感念哀王，悲不能自止。
太子既至前，不哀。
上大恨曰： 安有人不慈仁而可奉宗庙为民父母者乎！ 上以责谓丹。
丹免冠谢上曰： 臣诚见陛下哀痛中山王，至以感损。
向者太子当进见，臣窃戒属毋涕泣，感伤陛下。
罪乃在臣，当死。
上以为然，意乃解。
丹之辅相，皆此类也。
竟宁元年，上寝疾，傅昭仪及定陶王常在左右，而皇后、太子希得进见。
上疾稍侵，意忽忽不平，数问尚书以景帝时立胶东王故事。
是时，太子长舅阳平侯王凤为卫尉、侍中，与皇后、太子皆忧，不知所出。
丹以亲密臣得侍视疾，侯上间独寝时，丹直入卧内，顿首伏青蒲上，涕泣言曰： 皇太子以適长立，积十余年，名号系于百姓，天下莫不归心臣子。
见定陶王雅素爱幸，今者道路流言，为国生意，以为太子有动摇之议。
审若此，公卿以下必以死争，不奉诏。
臣愿先赐死以示群臣！
天子素仁，不忍见丹涕泣，言又切至，上意大感，喟然太息曰： 吾日困劣，而太子、两王幼少，意中恋恋，亦何不念乎！
然无有此议。
且皇后谨慎，先帝又爱太子，吾岂可违指！
驸马都尉安所受此语？
丹即却，顿首曰： 愚臣妾闻，罪当死！
上因纳，谓丹曰： 吾病浸加，恐不能自还。
善辅道太子，毋违我意！
丹嘘唏而起。
太子由是遂为嗣矣。
translation: 
Someone placed the drum under the main hall. The emperor himself went to the railing in front of the palace and dropped copper balls to hit the drum. The sound matched the solemn drum beat.
No one in the harem, concubines or attendants who were familiar with music could do it, but King Dingtao could do it too. The emperor repeatedly praised his talent.
Shi Danjin advised: Anyone who is called talented should be smart and fond of learning, review old skills and add new knowledge. The crown prince did it.
If people are measured by their talents, then Chen Hui and Li Wei are better than Kuang Heng and can help the country.
So the emperor laughed.
After this, King Ai of Zhongshan died, and the prince went to express his condolences.
King Ai is the emperor's younger brother, and he grew up together with the prince studying abroad.
The emperor saw the prince from a distance and thought of King Ai with emotion. He was so sad that he could not control himself.
The prince has arrived and is not sad.
The emperor was extremely dissatisfied and said: "How can there be a person who is not kind and benevolent but can worship the ancestral temple and be the parents of the people?" The emperor told Shi Dan his reproach.
Stan took off his hat and apologized to the emperor, saying: I saw His Majesty mourning the King of Zhongshan to the point of damaging his body.
When the prince was supposed to go to the palace to meet his master, I privately warned him not to cry, which made your majesty feel sad.
The fault lies solely with me and I should be put to death.
The emperor believed that what he said was right, and his anger subsided.
Stan's assistance in government affairs was all of this kind.
In the first year of Jingning, the emperor's illness gradually became serious. Fu Zhaoyi and King Dingtao often stayed by his side, but the queen and the prince were rarely able to enter the palace to see him.
The emperor's illness gradually worsened and his mood became trance-like and restless. He repeatedly asked the minister about the case of Emperor Jing's appointment of Prince Micellar as the crown prince.
At that time, the prince's eldest uncle Yangpinghou Wang Feng was appointed as a guard and a servant. The queen and the prince were very worried and did not know what strategy to adopt.
Because he was close to the ministers, Shi Dan could enter the palace to serve and visit the sick. When the emperor was lying alone in the room to rest, Shi Dan went straight into the bedroom, bowed his head on the Qingyuan mat, and cried and said: Prince Zao was established as the eldest son. He has been respected by the people for more than ten years. Everyone in the world has attached themselves to him and entrusted him as a minister.
Seeing that King Dingtao had always been very popular and favored, rumors were now spreading on the road, which aroused suspicion in the country and suggested that the prince was unstable.
If this is indeed the case, the ministers and ministers below will definitely fight to the death and refuse to accept the edict.
I am willing to receive the gift and die to show it to all the ministers!
The emperor was always kind, and could not bear to see Stan weeping and wailing, and his words were extremely sincere. The emperor was deeply moved, and he sighed and said: I am getting tired and weak day by day, but the prince and the two princes are young and reluctant to leave, so how can they not miss me?
But there is no such claim.
Besides, the queen is careful and cautious, and my late father loved the prince. How could I go against his will?
Where did the Prince Consort hear these words?
Stan immediately stepped back, kowtowed and said, "You foolish ministers who listened to rumors at will should be put to death!"
The emperor then accepted Stan's advice and said to Stan: My condition is gradually getting worse, and I'm afraid I will die soon.
Please help and guide the prince well and don't go against my wishes.
Stan stood up with a sigh.
The prince therefore finally became the heir.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
元帝竟崩，成帝初即位，擢丹为长乐卫尉，迁右将军，赐爵关内侯，食邑三百户，给事中，后徙左将军、光禄大夫。
鸿嘉元年，上遂下诏曰： 夫褒有德，赏元功，古今通义也。
左将军丹往时导朕以忠正，秉义醇一，旧德茂焉。
其封丹为武阳侯，国东海郯之武强聚，户千一百。
丹为人足知，恺弟爱人，貌若傥荡不备，然心甚谨密，故尤得信于上。
丹兄嗣父爵为侯，让不受分。
丹尽得父财，身又食大国邑，重以旧恩，数见褒赏，赏赐累千金，僮奴以百数，后房妻妾数十人，内奢淫，好饮酒，极滋味声色之乐。
为将军前后十六年，永始中病乞骸骨，上赐策曰： 左将军寝病不衰，愿归治疾，朕愍以官职之事久留将军，使躬不瘳。
使光禄勋赐将军黄金五十斤，安车驷马，其上将军印绶。
宜专精神，务近医药，以辅不衰。
丹归第数月薨，谥曰顷侯。
有子男女二十人，九男皆以丹任并为侍中、诸曹，亲近在左右。
史氏凡四人侯，至卿、大夫、二千石者十余人，皆讫王莽乃绝，唯将陵侯曾无子，绝于身云。
傅喜字稚游，河内温人也，哀帝祖母定陶傅太后从父弟。
少好学问，有志行。
哀帝立为太子，成帝选喜为太子庶子。
哀帝初即位，以喜为卫尉，迁右将军。
是时，王莽为大司马，乞骸骨，避帝外家。
上既听莽退，众庶归望于喜。
喜从弟孔乡侯晏亲与喜等，而女为皇后。
又帝舅阳安侯丁明，皆亲以外属封。
translation: 
Emperor Yuan fell ill, and Emperor Cheng had just ascended the throne. He promoted Shi Dan to the position of Changle Guardsman and General Right, and granted him the title of Marquis of Guannei and three hundred households of food. He was promoted to Shi Zhong, and later transferred to General Zuo and Doctor Guanglu.
In the first year of Hongjia, the emperor issued a letter to Shao saying: Praising virtuous people and rewarding ministers with meritorious service is a common principle from ancient times to the present.
General Shi Dan of the Left used to guide me with his honest and upright character. He upheld morality, simplicity and single-mindedness, and was the most virtuous and prosperous person in the past.
Shi Dan was granted the title of Marquis of Wuyang, and Wu Qiangju of Tan County in the East China Sea was made a fief with a settlement of 1,100 households.
Stan is resourceful and approachable. He looks suave and unruly on the outside, but he is very cautious on the inside, so he can be trusted by the emperor.
Stan's elder brother succeeded his father as a marquis and refused to accept the title.
Stan obtained all of his father's property, and received the taxes of a large fief himself. In addition, he was praised and rewarded many times for his past favors. The rewards he received accumulated to a thousand gold, and his servants were counted in hundreds. He had dozens of wives and concubines in the inner room. He was extravagant at home, loved drinking, and indulged himself in the pleasures of delicious food, music, and women.
He served as a general for a total of sixteen years. During the Yongshi period, he became seriously ill and asked to retire. The emperor gave him a policy letter saying: General Zuo is getting seriously ill and is not declining. He hopes to return home to cure his illness. I feel sorry for him. He has kept the general for a long time with his official duties, so that his body has not recovered.
He sent Guang Luxun to give the general fifty kilograms of brass, a carriage drawn by four horses, and handed over the general's seal.
You should concentrate your energy and mind, and be sure to get close to the doctor and take medicine to support your body and prevent it from failing.
Shi Dan died a few months after returning home and was named the Marquis of Qing.
He had twenty sons and daughters. Because of Shi Dan's trust, all nine sons became ministers and ministers, close to the emperor and often at his side.
There were a total of four people in the Shi family who were granted the title of marquis, and there were more than ten people who had the salary of 2,000 dan as official or minister. They were all extinct until the period of Wang Mang. Only Shi Zeng, the Marquis of Jiangling, had no heirs and was exterminated by himself.
Fu Xi, courtesy name Zhiyou, was a native of Wenxian County, Hanoi. He was the cousin of Empress Dowager Dingtao, the grandmother of Emperor Ai.
When he was young, he liked to learn and inquire, and he had ambition and integrity.
Emperor Ai was established as the crown prince, and Emperor Cheng selected Fu Xi as the crown prince's concubine.
As soon as Emperor Ai ascended the throne, he appointed Fu happy as a guard and promoted to general on the right.
At that time, Wang Mang was serving as Chief Sima, so he asked to resign and took refuge in the emperor's uncle's house.
The emperor has allowed Wang Mang to retire, and everyone has placed high hopes on Fu happy.
Fu Xi's cousin Fu Yan, the Marquis of Kongxiang, has the same kinship relationship with the emperor as Fu happy, and his daughter is the queen.
There was also the emperor's uncle, Hou Dingming of Yang'an, who was also granted the title because of his close maternal relatives.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
喜执谦称疾。
傅太后始与政事，喜数谏之，由是傅太后不欲令喜辅政。
上于是用左将军师丹代王莽为大司马，赐喜黄金百斤、上将军印绶，以光禄大夫养病。
大司空何武、尚书令唐林皆上书言： 喜行义修洁，忠诚忧国，内辅之臣也，今以寝病，一旦遣归，众庶失望，皆曰傅氏贤子，以论议不合于定陶太后故退，百寮莫不为国恨之。
忠臣，社稷之卫，鲁以季友治乱，楚以子玉轻重，魏以无忌折冲，项以范增存亡。
故楚跨有南土，带甲百万，邻国不以为难，子玉为将，则文公侧席而坐，及其死也，君臣相庆。
百万之众，不如一贤，故秦行千金以间廉颇，汉散万金以疏亚父。
喜立于朝，陛下之光辉，傅氏之废兴也。
上亦自重之。
明年正月，乃徙师丹为大司空，而拜喜为大司马，封高武侯。
丁、傅骄奢，皆嫉喜之恭俭。
又傅太后欲求称尊号，与成帝母齐尊，喜与丞相孔光、大司空师丹共执正议。
傅太后大怒，上不得已，先免师丹以感动喜，喜终不顺。
后数月，遂策免喜曰： 君辅政出入三年，未有昭然匡朕不逮，而本朝大臣遂其奸心，咎由君焉。
其上大司马印绶，就第。
傅太后又自诏丞相、御史曰： 高武侯喜无功而封，内怀不忠，附下罔上，与故大司空丹同心背畔，放命圮族，亏损德化，罪恶虽在赦前，不宜奉朝请，其遣就国。
后又欲夺喜侯，上亦不听。
喜在国三岁余，哀帝崩，平帝即位，王莽用事，免傅氏宫爵归故郡，晏将妻子徙合浦。
莽白太后下诏曰： 高武侯喜姿性端悫，论议忠直。虽与故定陶太后有属，终不顺指从邪，介然守节，以故斥逐就国。
translation: 
Fu happy insisted on being modest and claimed to be ill.
Empress Dowager Fu began to participate in political affairs, and Fu happy repeatedly dissuaded her, so Empress Dowager Fu did not want Fu happy to assist in government affairs.
The emperor then appointed Zuo General Shi Dan to replace Wang Mang as chief minister. He gave Fu happy one hundred catties of brass, handed over the general's seal, and recuperated his illness in the name of Dr. Guanglu.
Grand Sikong Hewu and Shangshu Ling Tang Lin all presented memorials saying: Fu Xi is of noble character and loyal to the state. He is a minister who assists the government. Now because he is ill, he is suddenly demoted and returned home, which will surely disappoint the people. They all say that Fu Xi resigned because his opinions were not in line with the Empress Dowager Dingtao. All officials feel sorry for the country.
Loyal ministers are the country's shield. The rule of Lu's state depends on Ji You, the strength of Chu's state depends on Ziyu, the state of Wei can retreat from the enemy with Wuji alone, and Xiang Yu's survival depends on Fan Zeng.
Therefore, although the state of Chu owned the territory in the south and had millions of armored soldiers, the neighboring countries did not think it was scary. Ziyu became a general, so Duke Wen of Jin was uneasy. When Ziyu died, the kings and ministers of Jin congratulated each other.
Therefore, millions of ordinary people are not as good as one wise man. Therefore, Qin State spent thousands of gold to alienate Lian Po, and Han King distributed ten thousand gold to alienate Yafu.
It is your majesty's honor that Fu happy remains in the court, and it is also a sign of the Fu family's prosperity.
The emperor himself also thought highly of Fu happy.
In the first month of the second year, Shi Dan was appointed as the Grand Sikong, and Fu happy was appointed as the Grand Sima, and was named Gao Wuhou.
Ding and Fu were arrogant and extravagant, and they were both jealous of Fu Xi's humility and frugality.
In addition, Empress Dowager Fu wanted to claim the title of Empress Dowager, which would have the same dignity as Emperor Cheng's mother. Fu happy, together with Prime Minister Kong Guang and Da Sikong Shidan, insisted on the legitimate proposition.
Empress Dowager Fu was furious, and the emperor had to dismiss Shi Dan first to touch Fu Xi, but Fu happy did not obey in the end.
After a few months of meeting, he ordered Fu happy to be dismissed, saying: "You have assisted the government for three years and have not obviously corrected what I have failed to do. However, the ministers in the government have become treacherous. The fault lies with you."
He handed over the seal of the Grand Sima and returned it to the mansion.
The Empress Dowager Fu herself issued an edict to the Prime Minister Censor: Fu Xi, the Marquis of Gaowu, was granted the title without any merit. He harbored disloyal thoughts in his heart, relied on his subordinates, deceived his superiors, and rebelled with the original Grand Sikong Shidan. He abandoned the teachings, destroyed the race, and harmed moral education. Although the crime was before pardon, he was not suitable to participate in the imperial meeting in the name of the imperial court. He was sent back to the fiefdom.
Later, he tried to deprive Fu happy of his title of marquis, but Zaoshang refused to listen.
Fu happy stayed in the fief for more than three years. Emperor Ai died, Emperor Ping succeeded to the throne, and Wang Mang came to power. Fu was relieved of his official position and was sent back to his original county. Fu Yan moved his wife and children to Hepu.
Wang Mang reported the order to the Queen Mother: Fu Xi, the Marquis of Gaowu, had a dignified appearance and temperament, and was honest and upright in his speech and opinions. Although he was related to the original Queen Mother Dingtao, he never obeyed the will and obeyed the evil and unswervingly adhered to his moral integrity. Therefore, he was expelled back to his fiefdom.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
传不云乎？ 岁寒然后知松伯之后凋也 。
其还喜长安，以故高安侯莫府赐喜，位特进，奉朝请。
喜虽外见褒赏，孤立忧惧，后复遣就国，以寿终。
莽赐谥曰贞侯。
子嗣，莽败乃绝。
赞曰：自宜、元、成、哀外戚兴者，许、史、三王、丁、傅之家，皆重侯累将，穷贵极富，见其位矣，未见其人也。
阳平之王多有材能，好事慕名，其势尤盛，旷贵最久。
然至于莽，亦以覆国。
王商有刚毅节，废黜以忧死，非其罪也。史丹父子相继，高以重厚，位至三公。
丹之辅道副主，掩恶扬美，傅会善意，虽宿儒达士无以加焉。
及其历房闼，入卧内，推至诚，犯颜色，动寤万乘，转移大谋，卒成太子，安母后之位。 无言不雠 ，终获忠贞之报。
傅喜守节不倾，亦蒙后凋之赏。
哀、平际会，祸福速哉！
translation: 
Isn’t it said in ancient books? When the weather is cold, we know that the pines and cypresses will wither.
Let Fu happy return to Chang'an, give Fu happy the former residence of Gao'an Marquis, occupy the special position, and participate in court meetings in the name of being invited by the court.
Although Fu happy was praised and rewarded on the surface, he was lonely, helpless and frightened. He was later sent back to his fiefdom and died of old age.
Wang Mang gave him the title of Zhenhou.
His son inherited the title, which was cut off after Wang Mang's defeat.
Praise said: Since Emperor Xuan, Emperor Yuan, Emperor Cheng, and Emperor Ai, the families of relatives have become particularly powerful, including the Xu family, the Shi family, the three Wang families, the Ding family, and the Fu family. They all have several people in the family, many generals, and are extremely wealthy. Only their prominent status is seen, but no outstanding talents are found in them.
The Yangping Wang family has some talent, likes to be busy, and loves fame. His power is especially strong, and he has been in high positions for the longest time even though he is not qualified.
However, by the time of Wang Mang, it was also destroyed.
Wang Shang was deposed because of his upright and firm moral integrity. He died of worry through no fault of his. Shi Dan and his son succeeded each other. Shi Gao was listed as one of the three princes because of his solemnity and loyalty.
Shi Dan assisted and guided the prince, covering up the bad things, praising the good things, and understanding the good intentions. Even the mature Confucians and wise scholars could not surpass him.
When he passed through the door and went straight into the bedroom, he treated the emperor with the utmost sincerity and offended the emperor's dignity. The emperor was moved and awakened, and changed his intention to establish a crown prince. Finally, he became the crown prince and stabilized the status of the queen mother. There is no speech that will not be treated accordingly. In the end, Stan was rewarded for his loyalty and steadfastness.
Fu happy sticks to his integrity without leaning in, and is rewarded with the final withering.
During the handover period between Emperor Ai and Emperor Hu, disaster or blessing came very quickly!


