Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 5, 6, 13]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
平原君赵胜者，赵之诸公子也。
诸子中胜最贤，喜宾客，宾客盖至者数千人。
平原君相赵惠文王及孝成王，三去相，三复位，封於东武城。
平原君家楼临民家。
民家有躄者，槃散行汲。
平原君美人居楼上，临见，大笑之。
明日，躄者至平原君门，请曰： 臣闻君之喜士，士不远千里而至者，以君能贵士而贱妾也。
臣不幸有罢癃之病，而君之後宫临而笑臣，臣原得笑臣者头。 平原君笑应曰： 诺。
躄者去，平原君笑曰： 观此竖子，乃欲以一笑之故杀吾美人，不亦甚乎！
终不杀。
居岁馀，宾客门下舍人稍稍引去者过半。
平原君怪之，曰： 胜所以待诸君者未尝敢失礼，而去者何多也？
门下一人前对曰： 以君之不杀笑躄者，以君为爱色而贱士，士即去耳。
於是平原君乃斩笑躄者美人头，自造门进躄者，因谢焉。
其後门下乃复稍稍来。
是时齐有孟尝，魏有信陵，楚有春申，故争相倾以待士。
秦之围邯郸，赵使平原君求救，合从於楚，约与食客门下有勇力文武备具者二十人偕。
translation: 
Zhao Sheng, Lord of Pingyuan, was a young master of the State of Zhao.
Among the many princes, Zhao Sheng was the most virtuous and talented. He was hospitable and cultivated scholars. There were about thousands of guests who came to his sect.
Lord Pingyuan served as the prime minister of King Zhao Huiwen and King Xiaocheng. He left the position of prime minister three times and was reinstated three times. His fiefdom was in Dongwu City.
Mr. Pingyuan's house has a tall building facing the houses below.
There was a lame man in the house who always limped out to fetch water.
A beautiful concubine of Mr. Pingyuan lived upstairs. One day she looked down and saw the lame man fetching water, and she burst out laughing.
The next day, the cripple came to Lord Pingyuan's house and asked: "I heard that you love scholars. The reason why scholars are not afraid of traveling thousands of miles to join your family is because you value scholars and despise concubines."
I was unfortunately ill and disabled, but your concubine was laughing at me from a high building. I wanted to get the head of the person who laughed at me. Mr. Pingyuan smiled and replied: "Okay."
After the lame man left, Lord Pingyuan smiled again and said: Look at this boy, he wants to kill my concubine just because of a smile. Isn't it too much?
I didn't kill that person after all.
More than a year later, more than half of the guests and diners on errands left one after another.
Mr. Pingyuan felt very strange about this situation and said: I, Zhao Sheng, never dare to be rude in all aspects of my treatment of gentlemen, but why are so many people leaving me?
A retainer stepped forward and replied: Because you did not kill the concubine who laughed at the cripple, everyone thought that you liked beauty and despised the scholars, so the scholars left one after another.
So Lord Pingyuan cut off the head of the concubine who laughed at the cripple. He personally visited the lame man's house and offered it to him, and took the opportunity to apologize to him.
From then on, the original guests came back one after another.
At that time, Qi State had Lord Mengchang, Wei State had Lord Xinling, and Chu State had Lord Chunshen. They were all hospitable to scholars, so they competed to be more courteous to scholars than others in order to attract more talents to themselves.
When the Qin State besieged Handan, King Zhao sent Lord Pingyuan to ask for help. At that time, he planned to recommend Chu as the leader of the alliance and make a joint alliance to fight against Qin. Lord Pingyuan agreed to go to Chu State with twenty of his followers who were brave, resourceful, and capable of both civil and military affairs.

summary:
summary line 0: Zhao Sheng, Lord of Pingyuan, was a virtuous and talented young master of the State of Zhao, known for hosting thousands of scholars. He served as prime minister under Kings Huiwen and Xiaocheng, leaving and returning to the position three times, with his fief in Dongwu City. A crippled man fetching water near his home was laughed at by one of Lord Pingyuan’s concubines. The cripple demanded her head, but Lord Pingyuan initially refused, causing many scholars to leave. He later killed the concubine and apologized to the cripple, regaining his guests.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
平原君曰： 使文能取胜，则善矣。
文不能取胜，则歃血於华屋之下，必得定从而还。
士不外索，取於食客门下足矣。
得十九人，馀无可取者，无以满二十人。
门下有毛遂者，前，自赞於平原君曰： 遂闻君将合从於楚，约与食客门下二十人偕，不外索。
今少一人，原君即以遂备员而行矣。
平原君曰： 先生处胜之门下几年於此矣？
毛遂曰： 三年於此矣。
平原君曰： 夫贤士之处世也，譬若锥之处囊中，其末立见。
今先生处胜之门下三年於此矣，左右未有所称诵，胜未有所闻，是先生无所有也。
先生不能，先生留。
毛遂曰： 臣乃今日请处囊中耳。
使遂蚤得处囊中，乃颖脱而出，非特其末见而已。
平原君竟与毛遂偕。
十九人相与目笑之而未废也。
translation: 
Mr. Pingyuan said: It would be best if we can succeed through polite negotiations.
If the negotiation fails to succeed, then the king of Chu will be coerced to confirm the alliance in public, and he must confirm the alliance before returning home.
The civil and military people who are going with me don’t have to look outside. It’s enough to choose from the diners under my sect.
In the end, nineteen people were selected, and there was nothing left to choose from. There was no way to gather twenty people.
At this time, a man named Mao Sui among the diners walked up to the front and recommended himself to Lord Pingyuan: I heard that you are going to Chu State, and let Chu State be the leader of the alliance to make an alliance. You also agreed to go with twenty diners, and no one will go outside to search.
There is still one person missing now, I hope you can use me to recharge and go together.
Mr. Pingyuan asked: How many years has it been since Mr. Wang stayed with me?
Mao Sui replied: It has been three years now.
Mr. Pingyuan said: A talented wise man living in the world is like an awl placed in a pocket, its sharp edge will be revealed immediately.
It has been three years since your husband has been under my care for three years now. None of my close ministers have ever praised or recommended you, and I have never heard of you. This is because your husband has no expertise.
Sir, you can't go. Sir, please stay.
Mao Sui said: I just want to put it in my pocket today.
If I had been placed in the pocket, the entire cone would have been exposed, not just the tip.
Lord Pingyuan finally agreed to let Mao Sui go with him.
The nineteen people winked at each other and laughed at Mao Sui secretly, but did not make a sound.

summary:
summary line 1: When Qin besieged Handan, Lord Pingyuan sought help from Chu to form an alliance. He needed twenty followers but could only find nineteen. Mao Sui, a retainer for three years, volunteered. Lord Pingyuan doubted his abilities, but Mao Sui argued that if placed in a pocket, the entire awl would show, not just its tip. Mao Sui joined and impressed the others. In Chu, negotiations stalled until Mao Sui confronted the King of Chu, threatening him and highlighting Chu’s past defeats by Qin. The king agreed to the alliance, and Mao Sui sealed it with a blood oath. Lord Pingyuan later praised Mao Sui as more powerful than an army.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
李同曰： 邯郸之民，炊骨易子而食，可谓急矣，而君之後宫以百数，婢妾被绮縠，馀粱肉，而民褐衣不完，糟糠不厌。
民困兵尽，或剡木为矛矢，而君器物锺磬自若。
使秦破赵，君安得有此？
使赵得全，君何患无有？
今君诚能令夫人以下编於士卒之间，分功而作，家之所有尽散以飨士，士方其危苦之时，易德耳。
於是平原君从之，得敢死之士三千人。
李同遂与三千人赴秦军，秦军为之卻三十里。
亦会楚、魏救至，秦兵遂罢，邯郸复存。
李同战死，封其父为李侯。
虞卿欲以信陵君之存邯郸为平原君请封。
公孙龙闻之，夜驾见平原君曰： 龙闻虞卿欲以信陵君之存邯郸为君请封，有之乎？
translation: 
Li Tong said: "The people of Handan are using human bones as firewood and exchanging children for food. It can be said that they are in extreme danger. However, you have hundreds of concubines and maids in your harem. The maids wear silk embroidered clothes and cannot eat the fine food. However, the people are unable to cover themselves with coarse shorts and cannot eat enough wine dregs and grain husks."
The people are tired and their weapons are exhausted. Some people sharpen wood to use as spears and arrows, but your precious playthings, copper bells and jade, are still intact.
If the Qin army breaks Zhao, how can you have these things?
If the State of Zhao can be preserved, why would you worry about not having these things?
Now you can really order all the members below the wife to be organized into the soldiers, and they will be responsible for the labor of guarding the city, and distribute all the things in the house for the soldiers to enjoy. When the soldiers are in crisis and hardship, it is easy to be grateful.
So Pingyuan Jun adopted Li Tong's advice and got 3,000 soldiers who dared to risk their lives.
Li Tong joined a team of 3,000 people and rushed to the Qin army for a decisive battle. As a result, the Qin army was pushed back thirty miles.
At this time, it happened that reinforcements from Chu and Wei arrived, and the Qin army withdrew, and Handan was preserved.
Li Tong was killed in battle with the Qin army, and his father was granted the title of Marquis Li.
Yu Qing wanted to request additional fiefdoms for Lord Pingyuan on the grounds that Lord Xinling sent troops to save Zhao and saved Handan.
When Gongsun Long heard the news, he drove overnight to see Lord Pingyuan and said: I heard that Yu Qing wanted to ask for additional fiefs on your behalf on the grounds that Lord Xinling sent troops to save Zhao and saved Handan. Is this true?

summary:
summary line 2: After returning, Chu and Wei sent reinforcements, but Handan remained in danger. Li Tong advised Lord Pingyuan to mobilize his household and distribute resources to the people, gaining 3,000 volunteers. Li Tong died in battle, pushing Qin back thirty miles, and Handan was saved when reinforcements arrived. Yu Qing sought additional fiefs for Lord Pingyuan, but Gongsun Long argued against it, noting Lord Pingyuan’s position and fief were due to kinship, not merit, and that Yu Qing’s proposal was self-serving. Lord Pingyuan rejected the request.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
平原君曰： 然。
龙曰： 此甚不可。
且王举君而相赵者，非以君之智能为赵国无有也。
割东武城而封君者，非以君为有功也，而以国人无勋，乃以君为亲戚故也。
君受相印不辞无能，割地不言无功者，亦自以为亲戚故也。
今信陵君存邯郸而请封，是亲戚受城而国人计功也。
此甚不可。
且虞卿操其两权，事成，操右券以责；事不成，以虚名德君。
君必勿听也。
平原君遂不听虞卿。
平原君以赵孝成王十五年卒。
子孙代，後竟与赵俱亡。
平原君厚待公孙龙。
公孙龙善为坚白之辩，及邹衍过赵言至道，乃绌公孙龙。
translation: 
Mr. Pingyuan replied: Yes.
Gongsun Long said: This is very inappropriate.
It is said that the monarch appointed you as the prime minister of Zhao State, not because your intelligence and talent are unique to Zhao State and no one else has them.
The title of Dongwu City is granted to you not because of your meritorious deeds, but because you are a close relative of the monarch.
You didn't refuse to accept the seal because you were incompetent, and you didn't refuse to accept the title because you had no merit. It was also because you considered yourself a close relative of the monarch.
Now Lord Xinling has sent troops to save Handan and you ask for an increase in the number of fiefs. This is because you accepted the fiefs as close relatives when you had no merit, but when you did meritorious service, you asked for rewards based on ordinary people's merits.
This is obviously very inappropriate.
Moreover, Yu Qing holds the initiative on both sides of success and failure. If the thing succeeds, he will ask for compensation like a deed to collect debt; if the thing does not succeed, he will use the false name of claiming credit for you to make you grateful to him.
You must not listen to his advice.
Lord Pingyuan then rejected Yu Qing's suggestion.
Lord Pingyuan died in the fifteenth year of King Zhao Xiaocheng's reign.
Lord Pingyuan's descendants inherited his title from generation to generation, and his descendants were finally cut off when the Zhao Kingdom was destroyed.
Lord Pingyuan treated Gongsun Long very kindly.
Gongsun Long was good at debating the "Li Jian Bai" proposition. When Zou Yan visited Zhao State, he discussed the most upright principles and refuted Gongsun Long's famous debate proposition. After that, Lord Pingyuan dismissed Gongsun Long.

summary:
summary line 3: Lord Pingyuan died in the fifteenth year of King Xiaocheng’s reign, and his descendants held the title until Zhao’s fall. He treated Gongsun Long well but dismissed him after Zou Yan refuted his debates. Yu Qing, a skilled lobbyist, advised King Zhao against ceding land to Qin after the Changping defeat, proposing instead to ally with Qi. King Zhao initially agreed but later followed Lou Huan’s advice to cede land, leading to further conflict. Yu Qing eventually fled to Daliang, where he wrote “Yu’s Spring and Autumn Annals,” criticizing political failures.

Chunk 13: 
original: 
太史公曰：平原君，翩翩浊世之佳公子也，然未睹大体。
鄙语曰 利令智昏 ，平原君贪冯亭邪说，使赵陷长平兵四十馀万众，邯郸几亡。
虞卿料事揣情，为赵画策，何其工也！
及不忍魏齐，卒困於大梁，庸夫且知其不可，况贤人乎？
然虞卿非穷愁，亦不能著书以自见於後世云。
translation: 
Tai Shigong said: Mr. Pingyuan is a handsome and talented son in troubled times, but he cannot understand the overall situation.
As the saying goes: greed for personal gain will lead to loss of reason. Lord Pingyuan believed in Feng Ting's heresy and coveted the Shangdang he gave, which led to the Zhao State's defeat in Changping, more than 400,000 Zhao soldiers were killed, and the Zhao State was almost destroyed.
Yu Qing analyzed the affairs, speculated on the situation, and made suggestions for the State of Zhao. How thoughtful and ingenious he was!
In the end, I couldn't bear to watch Wei Qi being hunted down, and finally found himself in trouble in Daliang. Ordinary people knew they couldn't do this, let alone talented people.
But if Yu Qing had not been poor and sad, he would not have been able to write books and make his reputation known to the world and pass on to future generations.

summary:
summary line 4: Tai Shigong noted that Lord Pingyuan, though talented, failed to grasp the bigger picture, leading to Zhao’s defeat at Changping and the loss of 400,000 soldiers. Yu Qing’s plans were thoughtful, but his inability to avoid trouble in Daliang highlighted his flaws, though his writings ensured his legacy.

