Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 5]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝景皇帝，文帝太子也。
母曰窦皇后。
后七年六月，文帝崩。
丁未，太子即皇帝位，尊皇太后薄氏曰太皇太后，皇后曰皇太后。
九月，有星孛于西方。
元年冬十月，诏曰： 盖闻古者祖有功而宗有德，制礼乐各有由。
歌者，所以发德也；舞者，所以明功也。
高庙酎，奏《武德》、《文始》《五行》之舞。
孝惠庙酎，奏《文始》、《五行》之舞。
孝文皇帝临天下，通关梁，不异远方；除诽谤，去肉刑，赏赐长老，收恤孤独，以遂群生；减耆欲，不受献，罪人不帑，不诛亡罪，不私其利也；除宫刑，出美人，重绝人之世也。
朕既不敏，弗能胜识。
此皆上世之所不及，而孝文皇帝亲行之。
德厚侔天地，利泽施四海，靡不获福。
明象乎日月，而庙乐不称，朕甚惧焉。
其为孝文皇帝庙为《昭德》这舞，以明休德。
然后祖宗之功德，施于万世，永永无穷，朕甚嘉之。
其与丞相、列侯、中二千石、礼官具礼仪奏。
丞相臣嘉等奏曰： 陛下永思孝道，立《昭德》之舞以明孝文皇帝之盛德，皆臣嘉等愚所不及。
臣谨议：世功莫大于高皇帝，德莫盛于孝文皇帝。
高皇帝庙宜为帝者太祖之庙，孝文皇帝庙宜为帝者太宗之庙。
天子宜世世献祖宗之庙。
郡国诸侯宜各为孝文皇帝立太宗之庙。
诸侯王、列侯使者侍祠天子所献祖宗之庙。请宣布天下。
制曰 可 。
春正月，诏曰： 间者岁比不登，民多乏食，夭绝天年，朕甚痛之。
郡国或硗狭，无所农桑系畜；或地饶广，荐草莽，水泉利，而不得徙。
translation: 
Emperor Jing of Han was the prince of Emperor Wen of Han.
His mother is Queen Dou.
In June of the seventh year of the Second Yuan Dynasty, Emperor Wen died.
On June 9, the prince succeeded to the throne and honored the empress dowager Bo as the empress dowager, and the empress dowager Dou as the empress dowager.
In September, a comet appeared in the west.
In the winter and tenth month of the first year of Emperor Jingdi's reign, the emperor issued an edict saying: I have often heard that in ancient times, the ancestors who conquered the world had merit, and the ancestors who governed the world had virtue, and rituals and music had their own origins.
Singing is used to praise great virtues; dancing is used to express achievements.
Offer sacrifices to Emperor Gaozu in the temple and perform the dances of "Wude", "Wen Shi" and "Five Elements".
Offer sacrifices to Emperor Hui in the temple and perform the dances of "Wen Shi" and "Five Elements".
Emperor Wen reigned over the world, and his government was harmonious, far and near; he eliminated the crime of slandering the emperor, stopped corporal punishment, rewarded the elderly and virtuous, comforted the lonely and helpless, and fulfilled the wishes of his subjects as much as possible; he controlled his hobbies and desires, did not accept donations, did not implicate the wife and children of sinners, did not let innocent people suffer injustice, was strict with himself, and enforced the law impartially; abolished palace punishment, and repatriated beauties in the palace to avoid having no heirs.
I am stupid by nature, and I still don’t know all about my father’s merits.
Only the above points were failed to be implemented by the ancient sage emperors and sage kings, but Emperor Wen implemented them all.
It can be said that great virtues are matched in heaven and earth, blessings are spread all over the world, and everyone is blessed.
Its holy brightness is like the sun and menstruation in the sky, but the music and dance of the sacrifice do not match it. I am deeply disturbed.
For this reason, the "Zhao De" dance should be performed for Emperor Wen's temple to highlight his virtues.
In this way, the merits of our ancestors can be passed down to all generations and will last forever, and I will be infinitely happy.
I hope that the prime minister, the princes, Zhong Erqianshi, and the etiquette officials will propose specific etiquette plans.
Prime Minister Shen Tujia and others said: Your Majesty always thinks of filial piety, and performs the dance of virtue to show the virtue of Emperor Xiaowen, which is beyond the understanding of the ministers.
I would like to discuss this: There is no one who was more successful in founding the country than Emperor Gao, and no one was more benevolent and virtuous than Emperor Wen.
Therefore, the Emperor Gao Temple should be the Taizu Temple of the Emperor's family, and the Emperor Wen Temple should be the Taizong Temple of the Emperor's family.
The emperors of the Han Dynasty should pay homage to their ancestors from generation to generation.
The princes of the prefecture and state should each establish a temple for Emperor Wen of Taizong.
The princes and princes sent envoys to Kyoto to offer sacrifices at the ancestral temple. Please announce it to the world.
Emperor Jing agreed.
The first month of spring. The edict was issued: "In recent years, the situation has been bad. Many people are short of food, and some have died of hunger. I deeply regret it."
Some counties have barren land and cannot develop farming; others have vast land, deep pastures, and excellent water conservancy conditions, but cannot be developed by immigrants.
summary:
Emperor Jing of Han, son of Emperor Wen and Queen Dou, ascended the throne on June 9 after his father's death in the seventh year of the Second Yuan Dynasty. He honored Empress Dowager Bo and Empress Dowager Dou. In his first year, he issued an edict praising Emperor Wen's virtues—abolishing slander laws, corporal punishment, and palace punishment; rewarding the elderly; and repatriating palace women. He ordered the "Zhao De" dance for Emperor Wen's temple. Prime Minister Shen Tujia proposed establishing Emperor Gao's temple as Taizu and Emperor Wen's as Taizong, with perpetual ancestral worship, which Emperor Jing approved.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
其议民欲徙宽大地者，听之。 夏四月，赦天下。赐民爵一级。
遣御史大夫青翟至代下与匈奴和亲。
五月，令田半租。
秋七月，诏曰： 吏受所监临，以饮食免，重；受财物，贱买贵卖，论轻。
廷尉与丞相更议著令。
廷尉信谨与丞相议曰： 吏及诸有秩受其官属所监、所治、所行、所将，其与饮食，计偿费，勿论。
它物，若买故贱，卖故贵，皆坐臧为盗，没入臧县官。
吏迁徙免罢，受其故官属所将监治送财物，夺爵为士伍，免之。
无爵，罚金二斤，令没入所受。
有能捕告，畀其所受臧。
二年冬十二月，有星孛于西南。
令天下男子年二十始傅。
春三月，立皇子德为河间王，阏为临江王，馀为淮阳王，非为汝南王，彭祖为广川王，发为长沙王。
夏四月壬午，太皇太后崩。
六月，丞相嘉薨。
封故相国萧何孙系为列侯。
秋，与匈奴和亲。
三年冬十二月，诏曰： 襄平侯嘉子恢说不孝，谋反，欲以杀嘉，大逆无道。
其赦嘉为襄平侯，及妻子当坐者复故爵。论恢说及妻子如法。
春正月，淮阳王宫正殿灾。
吴王濞、胶西王卬、楚王戊、赵王遂、济南王辟光、菑川王贤、胶东王雄渠皆举兵反。
大赦天下。
遣太尉亚夫、大将军窦婴将兵击之。
斩御史大夫晁错以谢七国。
二月壬子晦，日有蚀之。
诸将破七国，斩首十余万级。
追斩吴王濞于丹徒。
translation: 
To this end, people in areas with infertile soil can be encouraged to move freely to areas with vast and fertile land. In the fourth month of summer, a general amnesty was granted to all the people, and the people were granted a first-level title.
Qing Zhai, the imperial censor, was sent to Daixia to make peace with the Huns.
In May, an order was issued to reduce the rent of farmland by half.
In the seventh month of Autumn, an edict was issued saying: The current law punishes officials in charge of being dismissed from their posts for accepting banquets from subordinates, while the punishment for accepting property, buying cheap and selling high to make huge profits is too light.
Wang Tingwei and the Prime Minister re-formulated the regulations.
Ting Weixin and Prime Minister Shen Tujia agreed on a new law as follows: Officials and civil servants and generals with noble rank who accept banquets from their subordinate organizations and individuals must repay the price according to the price and will not be punished.
Any items other than food and drink that are purchased at a lower price or sold at a higher price by taking advantage of one's authority will be investigated as stolen goods and confiscated to the official.
When officials are transferred or dismissed, if they accept gifts of property from their original subordinates, their titles will be removed and they will be dismissed.
Those who do not have a title will be fined two catties and their property will be confiscated.
Those who can report will be rewarded with the stolen goods they did not receive.
In the winter of December of the second year of Emperor Jing's reign, a comet appeared in the southwest.
It is ordered that all men over the age of 20 can serve as assistant officials.
In the third month of spring, Prince De was named King of Hejian, Prince Yan was named King of Linjiang, Prince Yu was named King of Huaiyang, Prince Fei was named King of Runan, Prince Pengzu was named King of Guangchuan, and Prince Fa was named King of Changsha.
On the 25th of April in the summer, the Empress Dowager passed away.
In June, Prime Minister Shen Tujia passed away.
Xiao Xi, the grandson of Xiao He, the former prime minister, was made a lord.
In autumn, he made peace with the Xiongnu.
In the twelfth month of the third year of Emperor Jing's reign, he issued an edict saying: Hui, the son of Marquis Ji Jia of Xiangping, said he was unfilial, attempted rebellion, and wanted to kill Jia, which was actually a great treason.
Ji Jia is now pardoned and remains the Marquis of Xiangping. All those whose wives should have been seated according to the law are restored to their original rank, while Huishuo and his wife are executed.
In the first month of spring, a fire broke out in the main hall of Huaiyang Palace.
King Liu Bi of Wu, King Liu Xian of Jiaoxi, King Liu Wu of Chu, King Liu Sui of Zhao, King Liu Biguang of Jinan, King Liu Xian of Zichuan, and King Liu Xiongqu of Jiaodong jointly raised troops to rebel.
Emperor Jing ordered a general amnesty for the whole country.
He sent Taiwei Zhou Yafu and General Dou Ying to lead the expedition.
Chao Cuo, the imperial censor, suggested cutting down the vassal vassal to avoid being too powerful to appease the seven kingdoms that launched a rebellion.
On the first day of February, there was a partial solar eclipse.
The soldiers commanded by Zhou Yafu and Dou Ying defeated the rebels of the Seven Kingdoms and beheaded more than 100,000 people.
Chasing and killing Wu Wang Biyu Dan Tu.
summary:
In subsequent years, Emperor Jing addressed food shortages by encouraging migration to fertile lands, granted amnesties, reduced farmland rent by half, and reformed laws on official bribery and gift acceptance. Comets appeared, and the Empress Dowager died in 144 BC. The Seven Kingdoms rebellion led by Liu Bi of Wu and others erupted; Emperor Jing sent Zhou Yafu and Dou Ying to suppress it, resulting in over 100,000 rebel deaths and the suicides of the rebel kings. He pardoned deceived officials and civilians.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
其令二千石各修其职；不事官职、耗乱者，丞相以闻，请其罪。
布告天下，使明知朕意。
五月，诏曰： 人不患其不知，患其为诈也；不患其不勇，患其为暴也；不患其不富，患其亡厌也。
其唯廉士，寡欲易足。
今訾算十以上乃得官，廉士算不必众。
有市籍不得官，无訾又不得官，朕甚愍之。
訾算四得官，亡令廉士久失职，贪夫长利。
秋，大旱。
三年春正月，诏曰： 农，天下之本也。
黄金、珠玉，饥不可食，寒不可衣，以为币用，不识其终始。
间岁或不登，意为末者众，农民寡也。
其令郡国务劝农桑，益种树，可得衣食物。
吏发民若取庸采黄金、珠玉者，坐臧为盗。
二千石听者，与同罪。
皇太子冠，赐民为父后者爵一级。
甲子，帝崩于未央宫。
遗诏赐诸侯王、列侯马二驷，吏二千石黄金二斤，吏民户百钱。
出宫人归其家，复终身。
二月癸酉，葬阳陵。
赞曰：孔子称 斯民，三代之所以直道而行也 ，信哉！
周、秦之敝，罔密文峻，而奸轨不胜。
汉兴，扫除烦苛，与民休息。
至于孝文，加之以恭俭，孝景遵业，五六十载之间，至于移风易俗，黎民醇厚。
周云成、康，汉言文、景，美矣！
translation: 
The officials are now ordered to perform their duties. Anyone who neglects his duties or derelicts in his duties and harms the people shall be reported to the Prime Minister and punished.
I hereby announce it to the world so that my intentions are known to all.
In May, an edict was issued saying: Don't worry about someone being unwise, what you need to worry about is that he is cheating; don't worry about someone not being brave, what you need to worry about is that he is violent and violent; don't worry about someone not being rich, what you need to worry about is that he is unjust and greedy.
Only honest people are indifferent and content, and their desires are easily satisfied.
It was originally stipulated that a person with assets of 100,000 yuan could be an official, but this should not be required for honest people.
According to the original regulations, businessmen cannot become officials if they have money, and honest people cannot become officials if they have no money. This leads to the fact that honest people have no way to advance, which I feel very sorry for.
It is now decreed that those with assets of forty thousand yuan can become officials, so as not to prevent honest people from being able to hold their positions and allow greedy men to occupy their positions for a long time.
Autumn, severe drought.
In the first month of spring in the third year of the Yuan Dynasty, an edict was issued saying: Agriculture is the foundation of the world.
Gold, pearls and jade cannot be eaten when hungry or clothed when cold. They can be used with currency to communicate whether they are available or not, but they cannot be identified and used.
Sometimes the harvest is not good this year. I think it is because there are too many people engaged in business and too few people engaged in agriculture.
Now the special order of the county must encourage farmers to engage in mulberry farming and plant more trees, so that they can have enough food and clothing.
If an official uses his property to hire people to mine gold, pearls and jade, he will be punished as stolen goods.
Anyone who fails to investigate this matter will be guilty of the same crime.
The crown prince performs a crowning ceremony and rewards the common people who are his father's heirs with a title of one rank.
On the 27th of the first lunar month, Emperor Jing died in Weiyang Palace.
The imperial edict granted eight horses to each prince and prince. An official's two thousand shi means two catties of gold, and other officials and citizens each have a hundred coins.
The palace servants were dismissed and returned to their homes, exempted from lifelong corvee service.
On February 6, he was buried in Yangling.
Ban Gu commented: Confucius said that people today can also walk on the straight path like they did in the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties. This is quite correct.
The shortcomings of Zhou and Qin were that the legal network was tight and the laws were strict, but there were still countless people who broke the law and committed crimes.
The rise of the Han Dynasty eliminated the burdens and allowed the people to recuperate and recuperate.
As for Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty, he was respectful and frugal, and Emperor Jing followed his previous footsteps. Within fifty or sixty years, he was able to change customs and make the people simple.
The Zhou Dynasty praised Chengkang, and the Han Dynasty praised Wenjing. What a beautiful and prosperous age!
summary:
He appointed princes, resumed checkpoint inspections, made Liu Rong crown prince (later deposed), and Liu Che crown prince. He reformed mourning rites for princes, changed execution methods, and renamed officials. He prohibited tall horses from leaving the empire, faced locust plagues, and built Yangling. He issued edicts against bribery and harsh judgments, reformed official attire, and reduced whipping penalties. The Xiongnu invaded, and Zhou Yafu died in prison. He abolished the rule requiring princes to visit fiefs, promoted agriculture, and allowed those with 40,000 yuan assets to become officials. Emperor Jing died in Weiyang Palace in the first month of the third year of Houyuan, was buried in Yangling, and was praised by Ban Gu for continuing Emperor Wen's frugal policies, leading to a prosperous era comparable to the Zhou dynasty's Chengkang period.

