Summary uses chunk [0, 3, 3, 6, 7]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝宣皇帝五男。
许皇后生孝元帝，张婕妤生淮阳宪王钦，卫婕妤生楚孝王嚣，公孙婕妤生东平思王宇，戎婕妤生中山哀王竟。
淮阳宪王钦，元康三年立，母张婕妤有宠于宣帝。
霍皇后废后，上欲立张婕妤为后。
久之，惩艾霍氏欲害皇太子，乃更选后宫无子而谨慎者，乃立长陵王婕妤为后，令母养太子。
后无宠，希御见，唯张婕妤最幸。
而宪王壮大，好经书、法律，聪达有材，帝甚爱之。
太子宽仁，喜儒术，上数嗟叹宪王，辅曰： 真我子也！
常有意欲立张婕妤与宪王，然用太子起于微细，上少依倚许氏，及即位而许后以杀死，太子蚤失母，故弗忍也。
久之，上以故丞相韦贤子玄成阳狂让侯兄，经明行高，称于朝廷，乃召拜玄成为淮阳中尉，欲感谕宪王，辅以推让之臣，由是太子遂安。
宣帝崩，元帝即位，乃遣宪王之国。
时，张婕妤已卒，宪王有外祖母，舅张博兄弟三人岁至淮阳见亲，辄受王赐。
后王上书，请徙外家张氏于国。博上书，愿留守坟墓，独不徙。
王恨之。
后博至淮阳，王赐之少。
博言： 负责数百万，愿王为偿。
王不许，博辞去，令弟光恐云王遇大人益解，博欲上书为大人乞骸骨去。
王乃遣人持黄金五十斤送博。
博喜，还书谢，为谄语盛称誉王，因言： 当今朝廷无贤臣，灾变数见，足为寒心。
万姓咸归望于大王，大王奈何恬然不求入朝见，辅助主上乎？
使弟光数说王宜听博计，令于京师说用事贵人为王求朝。
许不纳其言。
后光欲至长安，辞王，复言 愿尽力与博共为王求朝。
王即日至长安，可因平阳侯。
光得王欲求朝语，驰使人语博。
博知王意动，复遗王书曰： 博幸得肺腑，数进愚策，未见省察。
北游燕、赵，欲循行郡国求幽隐之士，闻齐有驷先生者，善为《司马兵法》，大将之材也，博得谒见，承间进问五帝、三王究竟要道，卓尔非世俗之所知。
translation: 
Emperor Xiaoxuan had five sons.
Note that the empress gave birth to Emperor Xiaoyuan, the urgent maggot gave birth to King Xian of Huaiyang, Zhiyin, the envoy of Wei gave birth to King Xiaoxiao of Chu, Xingxiao, the nephew of Gongsun, Prince Shuhusi, King Liu, and the nephew of Rong, Prince Ai of Zhongshan, died.
Huaiyang Xianwang Liu Qin was established as king in the third year of Yuankang, and his mother Zhang Shidan was favored by Emperor Xuan.
After Queen Huo was deposed, the emperor wanted to make Zhang Tuzi his queen.
As time went by, I was wary of Huo's intention to harm the crown prince, so I changed my mind and chose someone who had no sons in the harem and was cautious. So I made Wang Jiantun, a native of Changling, the queen, and asked her to raise the crown prince like a mother.
The queen was not favored and rarely slept with or met the emperor. Only Zhang Jiantun was favored the most.
When King Xian of Huaiyang grew up, he liked scriptures and laws, was smart and talented, and Emperor Xuan liked him very much.
The prince was kind-hearted and fond of Confucianism. Emperor Xuan praised King Xian several times and said, "You are really my son!"
I often wanted to make Zhang Jianzi the queen and Prince Xian the prince. However, because the prince grew up in civilian life, Emperor Xuan relied on the Xu family when he was young, and Empress Xu had been killed when he came to the throne. The prince lost his mother when he was young, so he couldn't bear it.
After a long time, Emperor Xuan summoned and made Wei Xuan the lieutenant of Huaiyang Kingdom because Wei Xuancheng, the son of the former prime minister Wei Xian, pretended to be crazy and gave the marquis to his brother. He was praised by the court for his knowledge of Confucian classics and noble conduct.
When Emperor Xuan died and Emperor Yuan came to the throne, he ordered King Xian to go to the feudal country.
At this time, Zhang Biandan had passed away. King Xian had a maternal grandmother. His uncle Zhang Bo and his three brothers would be rewarded by King Xian if they went to Huaiyang to visit their mother every year.
Later, King Xian wrote a letter asking for the relocation of the Zhang family to Huaiyang. Zhang Bo wrote a letter saying he hoped to stay at his ancestral graves but refused to move.
King Xian resented him.
Later, when Zhang Bo went to Huaiyang, King Xian rewarded him less.
Zhang Bo said: The debt is several million. I hope King Xian will repay it for me.
King Xian refused. Zhang Bo left and sent his brother Zhang Guang to threaten King Xian, saying that he was even more lax in treating his grandmother. Zhang Bo wanted to write a letter to his mother asking for leave to go home.
King Xian sent someone to give Zhang Bo fifty pounds of gold.
Zhang Bo was happy and wrote back a letter of thanks. He praised King Xian very much with flattering words, and said: There are no good ministers in the court today, and disasters have occurred many times, which makes the court miserable. later.
The people all place their hopes on the king. Why does the king quietly do not ask to visit the court and assist the emperor?
His younger brother Zhang Guang persuaded King Xian several times to follow Zhang Bo's strategy. He himself went to the capital to lobby the powerful dignitaries to request an audience on King Xian's behalf.
King Xian did not adopt his opinion.
Later, Zhang Guang wanted to go to Chang'an. When he said goodbye to King Xian, he said that he would do his best to work with Zhang Bo to petition for the king's admission to the court.
The king is about to arrive in Chang'an and can rely on Marquis Pingyang.
When Zhang Guang heard that King Xian wanted to request an audience, he sent Pegasus to tell Zhang Bo.
Zhang Bo knew about King Xian's change of mind and sent another letter to King Xian, saying: "Zhang Bo is fortunate to be the king's confidant. He has made stupid suggestions several times, but they have not attracted your attention."
I traveled north to Yanzhao and other places, and wanted to visit the reclusive scholars in various places. I heard that there was a Mr. Si in Qi who was familiar with "Sima's Art of War" and was a talented general. Zhang Bo once paid a visit to him and took the opportunity to go and inquire about the ruling principles of the Five Emperors and Three Kings. His words were brilliant and could not be understood by ordinary people.
summary:
Emperor Xiaoxuan had five sons. The empress gave birth to Emperor Xiaoyuan, while other consorts bore Huaiyang Xianwang Liu Qin, Chu Xiaowang Liu Xiao, Dongping Siwang Liu Yu, and Zhongshan Aiwang Liu Tong, who died young. Liu Qin, made king in the third year of Yuankang, was favored by Emperor Xuan due to his mother Zhang Shidan’s influence. After Empress Huo was deposed, Xuan initially wanted to make Zhang queen but feared for the crown prince’s safety, instead choosing Wang Jiantun, a childless and cautious woman, to raise the prince. Zhang remained the most favored consort. Liu Qin, intelligent and fond of scriptures, was admired by Xuan, who considered replacing the crown prince but relented due to the prince’s early loss of his mother. After Xuan’s death, Emperor Yuan ordered Liu Qin to his fief. Zhang Shidan died, and Liu Qin’s maternal uncle Zhang Bo and his brothers were rewarded for visits. Liu Qin requested the Zhang family’s relocation to Huaiyang, but Zhang Bo refused, causing resentment. Zhang Bo later demanded debt repayment and, after receiving gold, flattered Liu Qin in letters, urging him to seek court audience and assist the emperor. Liu Qin initially declined but eventually agreed, sending gold and gifts. Zhang Bo’s son-in-law Jingfang, favored by Emperor Yuan for his knowledge of the *I Ching*, shared court secrets with Zhang Bo, who fabricated claims of influence with officials. Liu Qin was persuaded to pursue audience, but Jingfang’s departure and Shi Xian’s exposure led to arrests. The emperor, sparing Liu Qin, sent an admonishing official to rebuke him, citing his correspondence with Zhang Bo as treasonous. Liu Qin apologized, and Zhang Bo and his brothers were exiled. Under Emperor Cheng, Liu Qin requested the exiles’ return, which was granted despite official objections. He died in his thirty-sixth year, succeeded by his son Liu Xuan, then grandson Liu Yan, whose line ended under Wang Mang.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
《春秋》之义，大能变改。
《易》曰 借用白茅，无咎 ，言臣子之道，改过自新，洁己以承上，然后免于咎也。
王其留意慎戒，惟思所以悔过易行，塞重责，称厚恩者。
如此，则长有富贵，社稷安矣。
于是淮阳王钦免冠稽首谢曰： 奉藩无状，过恶暴列，陛下不忍致法，加大恩，遣使者申谕道术守藩之义。
伏念博罪恶尤深，当伏重诛。
臣钦愿悉心自新，奉承诏策。
顿首死罪。
京房及博兄弟三人皆弃市，妻子徙边。
至成帝即位，以淮阳王属为叔父，敬宠之，异于它国。
王上书自陈舅张博时事，颇为石显等所侵，因为博家属徙者求还。
丞相、御史复劾钦： 前与博相遗私书，指意非诸侯王所宜，蒙恩勿治，事在赦前。
不悔过而复称引，自以为直，失藩臣礼，不敬。
上加恩，许王还徙者。
三十六年薨。
子文王玄嗣，二十六年薨。
子縯嗣，王莽时绝。
楚孝王嚣，甘露二年立为定陶王，三年徙楚，成帝河平中入朝，时被疾，天子闵之，下诏曰： 盖闻 天地之性人为贵，人之行莫大于孝 。楚王嚣素行孝顺仁慈，之国以来二十余年，孅介之过未尝闻，朕甚嘉之。
今乃遭命，离于恶疾，夫子所痛，曰： 蔑之，命矣夫！斯人也而有斯疾也！
朕甚闵焉。
夫行纯茂而不显异，则有国者将何勖哉？
《书》不云乎？ 用德章厥善。 今王朝正月，诏与子男一人俱，其以广戚县户四千三百封其子勋为广戚侯。
明年，嚣薨。
子怀王文嗣，一年薨，无子，绝。
明年，成帝复立文弟平陆侯衍，是为思王。
二十一年薨，子纡嗣，王莽时绝。
初，成帝时又立纡弟景为定陶王。
广戚侯勋薨，谥曰炀侯，子显嗣。
平帝崩，无子，王莽立显子婴为孺子，奉平帝后。
莽篡位，以婴为定安公。
汉既诛莽，更始时婴在长安，平陵方望等颇知天文，以为更始必败，婴本统当立者也，共起兵将婴至临泾，立为天子。
更始遣丞相李松击破杀婴云。
东平思王宇，甘露二年立。
元帝即位，就国。
壮大，通奸犯法，上以至亲贳弗罪，傅相连坐。
translation: 
The meaning of "Spring and Autumn" is that the most important thing is to be able to change one's past.
"The Book of Changes" says that if you use Imperata for sacrifices, you will not encounter any mistakes. It means that the ministers must correct their mistakes and purify themselves to assist the emperor, and then they can avoid mistakes.
You should be careful and vigilant, consider how to repent and change your behavior, make up for the heavy responsibility, and express the emperor's great kindness.
In this way, you will enjoy long-lasting wealth and honor, and the country will be stable.
At that time, King Liu Qin of Huaiyang took off his hat, kowtowed and apologized, saying: I failed to fulfill my duties as a king of princes, and my crime was so obvious that your Majesty could not bear to punish the crime according to law, so he showed great kindness and sent envoys to explain the truth and fulfill the duties of princes.
Considering that Zhang Bo's crime is particularly serious, he should be sentenced to death.
The minister Liu Qin is willing to reform himself wholeheartedly and accept the edict respectfully.
I should deserve to die.
The three brothers Jingfang and Zhang Bo were all exiled from the city, and their wives and children were exiled to the border.
When Emperor Cheng came to the throne, because King Huaiyang was his uncle as a relative, he was respected by Emperor Cheng, far above other princes and kings.
The King of Huaiyang wrote a letter stating that his uncle Zhang Bo was being bullied by Shi Xian and others, so he requested to return to his hometown for the exiled Zhang Bo's family.
The prime minister and the imperial censor impeached the King of Huaiyang again: He and Zhang Bo had communicated privately with each other in the past, and their intentions were not what a prince should have. Thanks to the emperor's grace, he was not punished. The matter happened before the pardon.
Instead of repenting, he quoted past events and thought he was upright, which was unbecoming of a prince and committed the crime of disrespect.
However, the emperor granted King Huaiyang's request and promised King Xian to move the exiles back.
King Xian died in his thirty-sixth year.
His son King Wen Liu Xuan succeeded to the throne and died after reigning for twenty-six years.
His son Liu Yan succeeded to the throne, but was cut off by Wang Mang.
Liu Xiao, King Xiao of Chu, was established as King Dingtao in the second year of Ganlu's reign, and was granted the title of King of Chu three years later. Emperor Cheng entered the dynasty during the Heping period. He was ill at that time. The emperor took pity on him and issued an edict: It is said that human beings are the most noble of life in the world, and filial piety is the most important thing in human behavior. King Liu Xiao of Chu has always been filial and kind. In the more than 20 years since he became a feudal country, he has not heard of any minor mistakes. I admire him very much.
Now he is suffering from bad luck and is seriously ill. The Master deplored it and said: What a sad fate! Can such a person suffer from such a disease?
I feel sorry for him.
He is kind and noble without appearing to be different from the public. How will the princes be encouraged?
Didn't "Shang Shu" say that? Rewards are given to virtuous people in recognition of their kindness. Now is the first month of the dynasty. King Xiao is ordered to come to court with one of his sons, and his son Liu Xun is named the Marquis of Guangqi with a settlement of 4,300 households in Guangqi County.
The next year, Liu Xiao died.
His son Liu Wen, King Huai, succeeded to the throne and died a year later. He had no sons and was cut off.
In the second year, Emperor Cheng appointed Liu Wen's younger brother Liu Yan, Marquis of Lu, as King Si.
He died in the 21st year of his reign, and his son Liu Yu succeeded to the throne, which was cut off by Wang Mang.
At the beginning, when he became emperor, Liu Jing, Liu Yu's younger brother, was appointed King of Dingtao.
When Liu Xun, Marquis of Guangqi, died, Mi was named Yanghou, and his son Liu Xian succeeded him.
Emperor Ping died without a son, so Wang Mang made Liu Xian's son Liu Ying his son, who succeeded Emperor Ping.
Wang Mang usurped the throne and made Liu Ying the Duke of Ding'an.
After Wang Mang was executed by the Han Dynasty, Liu Ying was in Chang'an during the Gengshi period. Fang Wang and others from Pingling knew the astronomical phenomena very well and believed that the Gengshi Emperor would definitely fail. Liu Ying was the one who should be established as emperor according to the imperial tradition. Together they sent troops to take Liu Ying to Linjing and established him as the emperor.
Emperor Gengshi sent Prime Minister Li Song to defeat them and kill Liu Ying.
Liu Zi, the king of Dongping, was established as king in the second year of Ganlu.
Emperor Yuan ascended the throne and went to the feudal state.
When he grew up, he committed a crime for colluding with bad people. The emperor refused to punish him because he was the closest relative. His master was in line with the country.
summary:
Liu Xiao, Chu Xiaowang, was made king in the second year of Ganlu. Emperor Cheng, during a court visit, praised his filial piety and kindness, granting his son Liu Xun a marquisate. Liu Xiao died the next year, succeeded by his son Liu Wen, who died without heirs. Emperor Cheng then appointed Liu Wen’s brother Liu Yan as king, whose line ended under Wang Mang. Liu Jing, Liu Yu’s brother, was made King of Dingtao. Liu Xun’s descendant Liu Xian had a son, Liu Ying, whom Wang Mang made Duke of Ding’an after Emperor Ping’s death. During the Gengshi era, Liu Ying was proclaimed emperor by rebels but was killed by Gengshi’s forces. Liu Yu, Dongping Siwang, was made king in the second year of Ganlu. He committed crimes and was leniently treated by Emperor Yuan. Later, he served his mother poorly, leading to an imperial reprimand. He repented but, after Emperor Yuan’s death, showed disrespect by drinking and eating meat during mourning. He hanged a concubine who recorded his faults, leading to the reduction of his fief. He later reformed, and the emperor restored his lands. During a court visit, he requested books of the philosophers and *Historical Records*, but Wang Feng advised against it, citing their unsuitability for princes. Liu Yu died in his thirty-third year, succeeded by his son Liu Yun. During Emperor Ai’s reign, Liu Yun and his queen performed sacrifices at a stone formation, which was reported as treason. They were accused of cursing the emperor, and Liu Yun committed suicide. His fief was abolished but later restored by Wang Mang, who appointed Liu Kaiming as king. Liu Kaiming died without heirs, and his brother’s son Liu Xingkuang succeeded, but was killed by Wang Mang after a failed rebellion.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
立三十三年薨，子炀王云嗣。
哀帝时，无盐危山土自起覆草，如驰道状，又瓠山石转立。
云及后谒自之石所祭，治石象瓠山立石，束倍草，并祠之。
建平三年，息夫躬、孙宠等共因幸臣董贤告之。
是时，哀帝被疾，多所恶，事下有司，逮王、后谒下狱验治，言使巫傅恭、婢合欢等祠祭诅祝上，为云求为天子。
云又与知灾异者高尚等指星宿，言上疾必不愈，云当得天下。
石立，宣帝起之表也。
有司请诛王，有诏废徙房陵。
云自杀，谒弃市。
立十七年，国除。
元始元年，王莽欲反哀帝政，白太皇太后，立云太子开明为东平王，又立思王孙成都为中山王。
开明立三年，薨，无子。
复立开明兄严乡侯信子匡为东平王，奉开明后。
王莽居摄，东郡太守翟义与严乡侯信谋举兵诛莽，立信为天子。
兵败，皆为莽所灭。
中山哀王竟，初元二年立为清河王。三年，徙中山，以幼少未之国。
建昭四年，薨邸，葬杜陵，无子，绝。
太后归居外家戎氏。
孝元皇帝三男。
王皇后生孝成帝，傅昭仪生定陶共王康，冯昭仪生中山孝王兴。
定陶共王康，永光三年立为济阳王。
八年，徙为山阳王。
八年，徙定陶。
王少而爱，长多材艺，习知音声，上奇器之。
母昭仪又幸，几代皇后太子。
语在《元后》及《史丹传》。
成帝即位，缘先帝意，厚遇异于它王。
十九年薨，子欣嗣。
十五年，成帝无子，征入为皇太子。
translation: 
King Dongping Si died in the thirty-third year of his reign, and his son Yang King Liu Yun succeeded him.
During the reign of Emperor Ai, the ground of Wuyanwei Mountain swelled up on its own and was covered with grass, resembling the shape of a galloping road, and stood up on the side of the stone of Hushan Mountain.
Liu Yun and Queen Ye personally went to the stone to offer sacrifices, carved a stone like the stone in Hushan, used Shubeicao as a god, and offered sacrifices together.
In the third year of Jianping, Xifu Gong, Sun Chong and others relied on the favored minister Dong Xian to report the matter.
At this time, Emperor Ai was ill and disgusted with many things. He handed the matter over to the relevant departments, arrested King Yang and Queen Ye, put them in prison for interrogation, and sent wizard Fu Gong, maid Hehuan and others to curse the emperor during sacrifices and pray for Liu Yun to become emperor.
Liu Yun and Gao Shang, who knew about the disaster, observed the stars and said that the emperor's illness would definitely not be cured, and Liu Yun should win the world.
The standing stone symbolizes the rise of Emperor Xuan.
Relevant departments requested that King Yang be killed, and the emperor issued an edict to depose him and move him to Fangling.
Liu Yun committed suicide and Ye was executed and abandoned in the market.
In the seventeenth year of his reign, the feudal state was eliminated.
In the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, Wang Mang wanted to change Emperor Ai's approach, so he petitioned the Empress Dowager to appoint Liu Yun's prince Liu Kaiming as King of Dongping, and he also appointed Liu Chengdu, the grandson of King Si, as King of Zhongshan.
Liu Kaiming reigned for three years and died without any sons.
He also established Xingkuang, the son of Liu Kaiming's elder brother Yanxiang Hou Liu Xin, as the king of Sechu, succeeding Liu Tilong.
Wang Ling assumed the position of regent, and Yizhan, the governor of Sejing, and Xingzhi of Leisubao planned to send troops to kill Yuling, and he was declared emperor.
The army was defeated and all were destroyed by Wang Ling.
Liu Tong, the Ai King of Zhongshan, was established as the King of Qinghe in the 52nd year of Niu. Three years later, he moved to Zhongshan, but he did not go to the feudal country because he was young.
In the fourth year of Jianzhao's reign, he died in his official residence and was buried in Duling. He had no sons and was cut off.
The Queen Mother went back to live in the Rong family of her relatives.
Emperor Xiaoyuan had three sons.
Queen Wang gave birth to Xiao Chengdi, Fu Zhaoyi gave birth to Liu Kang, King of Dingtao, and Feng Zhaoyi gave birth to Liu Xing, King of Zhongshan.
Liu Kang, the co-king of Dingtao, was established as King of Jiyang in the third year of Yongguang.
Eight years later, he moved to Shanyang King.
After another eight years, he moved to Dingtao.
King Dingtao Gong was loved by Emperor Yuan when he was young. When he grew up, he was versatile and familiar with music. The emperor valued him very much.
His mother Fu Zhaoyi was favored again and almost replaced the queen and crown prince.
The incident was recorded in "Emperor Yuan" and "Standard's Biography".
After Emperor Cheng ascended the throne, he abided by the wishes of the late emperor and treated King Dingtao Gong differently from other kings.
He died in the 19th year of his reign and was succeeded by his son Liu Xin.
Fifteen years after he ascended the throne, Emperor Cheng had no sons and was conscripted into the palace as the crown prince.
summary:
Liu Tong, Zhongshan Aiwang, was made King of Qinghe and later moved to Zhongshan but died young without heirs. Emperor Xiaoyuan had three sons: Empress Wang gave birth to Emperor Cheng, Fu Zhaoyi to Liu Kang of Dingtao, and Feng Zhaoyi to Liu Xing of Zhongshan. Liu Kang, favored by Emperor Yuan, was treated specially by Emperor Cheng. He died after nineteen years, succeeded by his son Liu Xin, who became Emperor Ai. Emperor Ai honored his father as Emperor Gong. Liu Xing, Zhongshan Xiaowang, was made king and later moved to Zhongshan. Emperor Cheng considered him as heir but chose Liu Xin instead. Liu Xing died after thirty years, succeeded by his son Liu Yan, who became Emperor Ping. Emperor Ping’s line ended under Wang Mang.

Chunk 7: 
original: 
上以太子奉大宗后，不得顾私亲，乃立楚思王子景为定陶王，奉共王后。
成帝崩，太子即位，是为孝哀帝。
即位二年，追尊共王为共皇帝，置寝庙京师，序昭穆，仪如孝元帝。
徙定陶王景为信都王云。
中山孝王兴，建昭二年立为信都王。
十四年，徙中山。成帝之议立太子也，御史大夫孔光以为《尚书》有殷及王，兄终弟及，中山王元帝之子，宜为后。
成帝以中山王不材，又兄弟，不得相入庙。
外家王氏与赵昭仪皆欲用哀帝为太子，故遂立焉。
上乃封孝王舅冯参为宜乡侯，而益封孝王万户，以尉其意。
三十年，薨，子衎嗣。
七年，哀帝崩，无子，征中山王衎入即位，是为平帝。
太皇太后以帝为成帝后，故立东平思王孙桃乡顷侯子成都为中山王，奉孝王后。
王莽时绝。
赞曰：孝元之后，遍有天下，然而世绝于孙，岂非天哉！
淮阳宪王于时诸侯为聪察矣，张博诱之，几陷无道。
《诗》云 贪人败类 ，古今一也。
translation: 
Because the prince wanted to serve as a great clan and could not only care about his private relatives, the emperor appointed Liu Jing, the son of King Chu Si, as King Dingtao to succeed King Gong.
When Emperor Cheng died and the crown prince ascended the throne, he was the Emperor Xiaoai.
Two years after he ascended the throne, he honored the King of Gong as the Emperor of Gong, placed his dormitory temple in the capital, and arranged the order of Zhao and Mu with the same etiquette as Emperor Xiaoyuan.
Tao Wangjing was changed to King Xindu.
Liu Xing, the Xiaowang of Zhongshan, was established as King of Xindu in the second year of Jianzhao.
Fourteen years later, he moved to the throne of Zhongshan. When Emperor Cheng was discussing the establishment of a crown prince, Kong Guang, the imperial censor, believed that "Shangshu" contained lessons from the demise of the Yin Dynasty and inherited the throne. When the elder brother died, the younger brother succeeded. King Zhongshan was the son of Emperor Yuan and should be the next emperor.
Emperor Cheng believed that King Zhongshan had no talent and they were brothers, so they could not enter the ancestral temple together.
Both Wang and Zhao Zhao wanted Emperor Ai to be the crown prince, so they made him the crown prince.
The emperor named Xiao Wang's uncle Feng Shen the Marquis of Yixiang, and also granted Xiao Wang Wanhu the title to express his comfort.
He reigned for thirty years and died. His son Liu Yan succeeded to the throne.
After reigning for seven years, Emperor Ai died without a son, so he recruited Liu Shu, King of Zhongshan, to the palace and ascended the throne, becoming Emperor Ping.
The Empress Dowager believed that the emperor was a descendant of Emperor Cheng, so she established Liu Chengdu, the son of Taoxiang Qinghou, the grandson of King Shu Pingsi, as King of Zhongshan, succeeding King Xiao.
It was cut off when Wang Mang died.
Zan said: The descendants of Emperor Xiaoyuan are all over the world, but the heirs are cut off in the generation of his grandchildren. Isn't it God's will?
Huaiyang Xianyu was very smart among the princes at that time. He seduced him and almost fell into a state of immorality.
"The Book of Songs" says that greedy people are the black sheep, and this has been true in ancient and modern times.
summary:
The commentary notes that Emperor Xiaoyuan’s descendants spread widely but were cut off in his grandchildren’s generation, perhaps by fate. Liu Qin was intelligent but nearly fell into immorality due to Zhang Bo’s greed, echoing the *Book of Songs*’ warning about greedy people.

