Chunk 0: 
original: 
谢朏弟子览谢朏，字敬冲，陈郡阳夏人也。
祖弘微，宋太常卿，父庄，右光禄大夫，并有名前代。
朏幼聪慧，庄器之，常置左右。
年十岁，能属文。
庄游土山赋诗，使朏命篇，朏揽笔便就。
琅邪王景文谓庄曰： 贤子足称神童，复为后来特达。
庄笑，因抚朏背曰： 真吾家千金。
孝武帝游姑孰，敕庄携朏从驾，诏使为《洞井赞》，于坐奏之。
帝曰： 虽小，奇童也。
起家抚军法曹行参军，迁太子舍人，以父忧去职。
服阕，复为舍人，历中书郎，卫将军袁粲长史。
粲性简峻，罕通宾客，时人方之李膺。
朏谒既退，粲曰： 谢令不死。
寻迁给事黄门侍郎。
出为临川内史，以贿见劾，案经袁粲，粲寝之。
齐高帝为骠骑将军辅政，选朏为长史，敕与河南褚炫、济阳江斅、彭城刘俣俱入侍宋帝，时号为天子四友。
续拜侍中，并掌中书、散骑二省诏册。
高帝进太尉，又以朏为长史，带南东海太守。
高帝方图禅代，思佐命之臣，以朏有重名，深所钦属。
论魏、晋故事，因曰： 晋革命时事久兆，石苞不早劝晋文，死方恸哭，方之冯异，非知机也。
朏答曰： 昔魏臣有劝魏武即帝位者，魏武曰： 如有用我，其为周文王乎！
晋文世事魏氏，将必身终北面；假使魏早依唐虞故事，亦当三让弥高。
帝不悦。
更引王俭为左长史，以朏侍中，领秘书监。
及齐受禅，朏当日在直，百僚陪位，侍中当解玺，朏佯不知，曰： 有何公事？
传诏云： 解玺授齐王。
朏曰： 齐自应有侍中。
translation: 
Xie Bei, courtesy name Jingchong, was born in Yangxia, Chen County.
His grandfather Hongwei was Taichang Qing in the Song Dynasty, and his father was Xie Zhuang, a doctor named Youguanglu. Both of them were famous in previous generations.
Xie Sui was smart and smart when he was a child. Xie Zhuang valued him very much and often took him with him.
He could write articles at the age of ten.
Xie Zhuang was playing in Tushan and composing poems. He asked Xie Li to write a poem. Xie Bei picked up his pen and wrote it.
Wang Jingwen of Langye said to Xiezhuang: Your son is enough to be called a child prodigy, and he will become a particularly promising person among future generations.
Xie Zhuang smiled, patted Xie Li's back and said, "You are really the treasure of our family."
Emperor Xiaowu was visiting Gushu, and ordered Xie Zhuang to take Xie Kui to follow the driver. He also ordered Xie Chu to compose "Praise to the Dongjing" and played the "Praise to the Dongjing" while he was sitting.
Emperor Xiaowu said: Although he is young, he is a child prodigy.
Xie Li initially served as Fujun Fa Cao Xing and joined the army. He was promoted to Prince Sheren but resigned due to his father's death.
After serving the funeral, he became a layman again, and successively served as Zhongshulang and General Yuan Can of the Wei.
Yuan Can was simple and strict by nature and rarely interacted with guests. People at the time compared him to Li Ying.
When Xie Li saw that he had retired, Yuan Can said, "This is Xie Ling's immortality."
Soon he was transferred to serve as the minister of Huangmen.
He served as the internal history of Linchuan and was impeached for bribery. The case passed through Yuan Can, who shelved the matter.
Emperor Qi Gao served as a hussar general to assist the government, elected Xie Bei to be the chief historian, and ordered him to enter the court to serve the Song emperor together with Chu Xuan of Henan, Jiang Jiao of Jiyang, and Liu Yu of Pengcheng. They were known as the four friends of the emperor at that time.
Then he was appointed as Shizhong, and was in charge of the Shaoguan documents of Zhongshu and Sanqi provinces.
Emperor Gao was promoted to the rank of Taiwei, and appointed Xie Zhu as the chief official and concurrently as the Grand Administrator of Nanshutu.
The childbirth was about to plot to succeed the emperor. The ministers who were considering assisting him in starting a business thought that Xie Bei had great reputation and respected him deeply.
Discussing the story of Wei and Zhi with Xie Nao, he said: The changes in destiny and destiny of Zhi Dai reform have been foreshadowed for a long time. Hu Bao did not encourage Emperor Wen of Jin to ascend the throne earlier, and only cried for him after his death. Compared with Feng Yi, he did not know the timing.
Xie Chu replied: It turns out that there were ministers in the Wei State who encouraged Emperor Wu of Wei to ascend the throne. Emperor Wu of Wei said to them: If destiny is useful to me, I should probably become King Wen of Zhou!
Emperor Wen of Jin served the Wei family all his life, and he would definitely be a minister to the north for the rest of his life. If Wei had followed the story of Tang Yu's surrender earlier, then Emperor Wen of Jin should have resigned many times to show his noble character.
Emperor Gao was very unhappy after hearing what he said.
Then he recommended Wang Jian to be the chief historian of Zuo, and asked Xie Zhu to write poems and serve as secretary and supervisor.
When Qi arrived, he accepted the abdication. Xie Zhu was on duty that day, and all the officials were sitting with him. The waiter was supposed to take off the jade seal. Xie Li pretended not to understand and asked: "What's the official business?"
The person who passed it on to Shao said: Take off the jade seal and give it to the King of Qi.
Xie Chu said: Qi himself should have an attendant.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
乃引枕卧。
传诏惧，乃使称疾，欲取兼人。
朏曰： 我无疾，何所道。
遂朝服，步出东掖门，乃得车，仍还宅。
是日遂以王俭为侍中解玺。
既而武帝言于高帝，请诛朏。
帝曰： 杀之则遂成其名，正应容之度外耳。
遂废于家。
永明元年，起家拜通直散骑常侍，累迁侍中，领国子博士。
五年，出为冠军将军、义兴太守，加秩中二千石。
在郡不省杂事，悉付纲纪，曰： 吾不能作主者吏，但能作太守耳。
视事三年，征都官尚书、中书令。
隆昌元年，复为侍中，领新安王师。未拜，固求外出。
仍为征虏将军、吴兴太守，受召便述职。
时明帝谋入嗣位，朝之旧臣皆引参谋策。
朏内图止足，且实避事。
弟綍，时为吏部尚书。
朏至郡，致綍数斛酒，遗书曰： 可力饮此，勿豫人事。
朏居郡每不治，而常务聚敛，众颇讥之，亦不屑也。
建武四年，诏征为侍中、中书令，遂抗表不应召。
遣诸子还京师，独与母留，筑室郡之西郭。
明帝下诏曰： 夫超然荣观，风流自远；蹈彼幽人，英华罕值。
故长揖楚相，见称南国；高谢汉臣，取贵良史。
新除侍中、中书令朏，早藉羽仪，夙标清尚，登朝树绩，出守驰声。
遂敛迹康衢，拂衣林沚，抱箕颍之余芳，甘憔悴而无闷。
抚事怀人，载留钦想。
宜加优礼，用旌素概。
可赐床帐褥席，俸以卿禄，常出在所。
时国子祭酒庐江何胤亦抗表还会稽。
永元二年，诏征朏为散骑常侍、中书监，胤为散骑常侍、太常卿，并不屈。
三年，又诏征朏为侍中、太子少傅，胤散骑常侍、太子詹事。
时东昏皆下在所，使迫遣之，值义师已近，故并得不到。
及高祖平京邑，进位相国，表请朏、胤曰： 夫穷则独善，达以兼济。
虽出处之道，其揆不同，用舍惟时，贤哲是蹈。
前新除侍中、太子少傅朏，前新除散骑常侍、太子詹事、都亭侯胤，羽仪世胄，徽猷冠冕，道业德声，康济雅俗。
昔居朝列，素无宦情，宾客简通，公卿罕预，簪绂未褫，而风尘摆落。
translation: 
Just pull up the pillow and sleep.
Fu Zhao's people were afraid, so they asked him to claim that he was ill and wanted to find someone else to take his place.
Xie Bei said: I am not sick, what are you talking about?
He put on his court clothes, walked out of Dongye Gate, got in his car, and returned to his residence.
One day later, Wang Jian was appointed as the servant to untie the jade seal.
Soon Emperor Wu asked Emperor Gao to kill Xie Bei.
Emperor Gao said: "Killing him will bring success to his reputation. He should be tolerated and excluded from the law."
So he was dismissed from office and stayed at home.
In the first year of Yongming Dynasty, Xie Chu was summoned from his home to be appointed as a regular servant of Tongzhi Sanqi. He was successively transferred to the position of servant and received the doctor of Guozi.
In the fifth year, he was appointed as the champion general and the prefect of Yixing, and received an additional salary of two thousand dan.
When he was in office in the county, he did not check the chores and handed over everything to the rules and regulations. He said: "I can't be a low-level official like the master, I can only be a prefect."
After working for three years, he was appointed as the Du Guan Shangshu and Zhongshu Ling.
In the first year of Longchang, he wrote a poem and accepted the post of master of King Xin'an. Xie Zhu did not accept the offer and insisted on applying for a job abroad.
So he became the general who conquered the captives and the governor of Wuxing. He took up his post after being summoned.
When Emperor Ming was sent to seek his succession to the throne, all the old ministers of the imperial court were summoned to discuss strategies.
Xie Li thought about stopping in his heart, but in fact it was to avoid trouble.
His younger brother Xie Man was the Minister of the Ministry of Personnel at that time.
When Xie Li came to the county, he gave Xie a lot of dendrobium wine and left a note saying: You can drink as much as you can, but don't get involved in personnel disputes.
When Xie Bei was in office in the county, he often ignored official affairs but devoted himself to amassing wealth. People ridiculed him, but he ignored him.
In the fourth year of Jianwu's reign, Xia Shao summoned Xie Bei to serve as Shizhong and Zhongshuling. He submitted a memorial to the emperor and refused to accept Shao's request.
He sent his disciples back to the capital, but he and his mother stayed behind and built a house in the west city of the county.
Emperor Ming issued an edict: On top of transcendent honors, outstanding figures will naturally go away; following the footsteps of the hermit, outstanding brilliance is of rare value.
Therefore, I bow my hands and bow to the Prime Minister of Chu who is praised in the south; I express my gratitude to Mo Chen for choosing a good historian.
The newly appointed Shizhong and Zhongshu Ling Xie Qian had been relied on by the imperial court in the early years. He always showed his innocence and noble character. He came to the imperial court to establish political achievements and became a guard official with great reputation.
Then he stopped his footsteps and walked towards the broad and accessible road of the fields. He turned around and retreated to the mountains, forests and rivers, embracing the lingering fragrance of Jishan and Yingshui. He was willing to be haggard and not to be distressed.
Reminiscing about the past, remembering the old people, and retaining admiring thoughts.
He should be given preferential treatment and courtesy to commend his innocence.
You can give him a bed, tents and mats, give him your salary, and send him to his place for a long time.
He Yin, who sent the emperor to offer wine to Lujiang, also wrote a memorial to the emperor and returned to Huishan.
In the second year of Yongyuan, Xia Shao recruited Xie Chu to be the regular attendant of Sanqi and the supervisor of Zhongshu, and He Yin to be the regular attendant of Sanqi and Taichang Qing. Neither of them gave in.
In the third year, he went to Shao and recruited Xie Li as the servant and the prince's young master, and Yulegs as the regular servant of the Sanqi and the prince Zhanshi.
At this time, Seju Fort came down to where they were, and sent people to force them to be sent. When the rebel army was approaching, neither of them could get it.
When Zhizu pacified the capital and entered the Xiangguo Kingdom, he asked for the appointment of Xie Bei and He Yin, saying: If you don't have the ambition, you should focus on yourself; if you have the ambition, you should help the world.
Although they have different considerations regarding the reasons for becoming an official and retiring, the appointment by the court should only be based on the needs of the times, and only those with outstanding talents and virtues should be appointed.
Xie Zhuo, the Prince's Young Master, and the Sanqi Changshi, Prince Zhan Shi, and Dutinghou Tanhuang were just appointed by the previous dynasty. They were auxiliaries of the imperial court and descendants of aristocratic families. They had good conduct and were born in official positions. They had the ability to succeed in politics and moral reputation, and could appease the world and save the world.
Although he was in the imperial court in the past, he never had any intention of becoming an official. He rarely interacted with guests and rarely participated in the affairs of ministers. Although he did not take off his hairpin and tassel, he was able to get rid of the secular customs.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
且文宗儒肆，互居其长；清规雅裁，兼擅其美。
并达照深识，预睹乱萌，见庸质之如初，知贻厥之无寄。
拂衣东山，眇绝尘轨。
虽解组昌运，实避昏时。
家膺鼎食，而甘兹橡艾；世袭青紫，而安此悬鹑。
自浇风肇扇，用南成俗，淳流素轨，余烈颇存。
谁其激贪，功归有道，康俗振民，朝野一致。
虽在江海，而勋同魏阙。
今泰运甫开，贱贫为耻；况乎久蕴瑚琏，暂厌承明，而可得求志海隅，永追松子。
臣负荷殊重，参赞万机，实赖群才，共成栋干。
思挹清源，取镜止水。
愚欲屈居僚首，朝夕谘诹，庶足以翼宣寡薄，式是王度。
请并补臣府军谘祭酒，朏加后将军。
并不至。
高祖践阼，征朏为侍中、左光禄大夫、开府仪同三司，胤散骑常侍、特进、右光禄大夫，又并不屈。
仍遣领军司马王果宣旨敦譬。
明年六月，朏轻舟出，诣阙自陈。
既至，诏以为侍中、司徒、尚书令。
朏辞脚疾不堪拜谒，乃角巾肩舆，诣云龙门谢。
诏见于华林园，乘小车就席。
明旦，舆驾出幸朏宅，宴语尽欢。
朏固陈本志，不许；因请自还东迎母，乃许之。
临发，舆驾复临幸，赋诗饯别。
王人送迎，相望于道。
到京师，敕材官起府于旧宅，高祖临轩，遣谒者于府拜授，诏停诸公事及朔望朝谒。
三年元会，诏朏乘小舆升殿。
translation: 
Moreover, Wen Zongbo and Wen Zongbo each have their own strengths in Confucianism; they can follow the elegant standards and are good at each other's strengths.
Moreover, he understands profound principles, foresees the emerging disasters, can detect mediocrity from the beginning, and understands that his descendants have nothing to rely on.
He retired to Dongshan and disappeared from the world.
Although he takes off his seal and ribbon when his destiny is prosperous, it is actually to avoid the dark and chaotic world.
The family has abundant food, but they are willing to eat rough food like oak chestnuts and wild wormwood. They have inherited gorgeous clothes from generation to generation, but they feel comfortable wearing shabby clothes like quails.
Since the frivolous social atmosphere began to blow, it has influenced the formation of popular customs in the south, and the simple, honest and pure customs have made little contribution to the survival of the people.
Who can restrain greed? The merit should be attributed to the existence of Tao. Peaceful customs can help the people, both in government and in opposition.
Although the hermits were in Jianghai, their achievements were the same as those in the imperial court.
Today's country has just begun to prosper, and poverty is a shame; besides, it has been storing precious hulian for a long time. For the time being, it is content with being clear, but can it go to the ends of the world to pursue great ambitions and follow the pine nuts of the gods forever?
I have a particularly heavy burden. The advice and assistance on many matters really depend on many talents to jointly become the pillars of the country.
Longing leads to the clear spring, and I reflect on myself in the still water.
I want to be at the head of the group of officials, and consult with them morning and night, hoping that I can assist and make up for the weak points, and standardize the king's politics and religion.
Please also make up for the military consultation wine in my house, and thank General Beijia.
One does not come.
When Emperor Gaozu came to the throne, he recruited Xie Bei to serve as a minister, Zuo Guanglu, and Kaifu Yitong, and He Yin to serve as Sanqi Changshi, Tejin, and You Guanglu. Neither of them gave in.
He also sent the leader Sima Wangguo to read out the decree and persuade Xiaoyu.
In June of the next year, Xie Li left the city in a small boat and went to Gaozu's palace to answer questions.
After arriving, Xia Shao conscripted him as Shizhong, Situ, and Shangshu Ling.
Xie Bei used the excuse that his feet were sick and could not walk to see Emperor Gaozu, so he wore a scarf and sat in a sedan chair to go to Yunlongmen to express his gratitude.
Emperor Gaozu summoned him in Hualin Garden, and Xie Zhuo went to the banquet in a small car.
The next morning, Emperor Gaozu came to Xie Chu's residence, held a banquet, chatted and had fun.
Xie Chu repeatedly stated that he did not want to be an official, so he did not allow it. So he asked to go back to Shubian to fetch his mother, and Xiao finally agreed.
Before departure, Emperor Gaozu came again and wrote a farewell poem.
Envoys send greetings and welcomes without stopping.
When he arrived in the capital, he ordered Caiguan to build a palace on his old residence. Emperor Gaozu went to the palace in person, sent visitors to the palace to pay homage, and issued an edict to stop all official business and attend court meetings.
In the third year of Yuanhui, when all the ministers came to court, an edict was issued to allow Xie Kui to ride in a small car to the palace.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
其年，遭母忧，寻有诏摄职如故。
后五年，改授中书监、司徒、卫将军，并固让不受。
遣谒者敦授，乃拜受焉。
是冬薨于府，时年六十六。
舆驾出临哭，诏给东园秘器，朝服一具，衣一袭，钱十万，布百匹，蜡百斤。
赠侍中、司徒。
谥曰靖孝。
朏所著书及文章，并行于世。
子谖，官至司徒右长史，坐杀牛免官，卒于家。
次子絪，颇有文才，仕至晋安太守，卒官。
览字景涤，朏弟綍之子也。
选尚齐钱唐公主，拜驸马都尉、秘书郎、太子舍人。
高祖为大司马，召补东阁祭酒，迁相国户曹。
天监元年，为中书侍郎，掌吏部事，顷之即真。
览为人美风神，善辞令，高祖深器之。
尝侍座，受敕与侍中王暕为诗答赠。其文甚工。
高祖善之，仍使重作，复合旨。
乃赐诗云： 双文既后进，二少实名家；岂伊止栋隆，信乃俱国华。
以母忧去职。
服阕，除中庶子，又掌吏部郎事，寻除吏部郎，迁侍中。
览颇乐酒，因宴席与散骑常侍萧琛辞相诋毁，为有司所奏。
高祖以览年少不直，出为中权长史。
顷之，敕掌东宫管记，迁明威将军、新安太守。
九年夏，山贼吴承伯破宣城郡，余党散入新安，叛吏鲍叙等与合，攻没黟、歙诸县，进兵击览。
览遣郡丞周兴嗣于锦沙立坞拒战，不敌，遂弃郡奔会稽。
台军平山寇，览复还郡，左迁司徒谘议参军、仁威长史、行南徐州事，五兵尚书。
寻迁吏部尚书。
translation: 
The next year, his mother died, and soon he was asked to take the post of regent.
In the next five years, he was awarded the titles of Zhongshujian, Situ and General Wei, but he resolutely refused to accept them.
After sending an audience to urge him to confer the title, he accepted it.
He died at his residence in the winter of Qiannian, at the age of sixty-six.
Emperor Gaozu came by car to mourn, and Xia Shao provided him with a coffin, a set of court clothes, a set of clothes, one hundred thousand coins, one hundred pieces of cloth, and one hundred pounds of wax.
He was given posthumously as Shizhong and Situ.
Mi's nickname is Fallen Man.
The books and articles written by Yaobi were published in the world at the same time.
His son invited Mo, and his official position was promoted to Situ Youchangshi. He was dismissed from the official position for committing the crime of killing cattle and died at home.
The second son, Yao Kun, was very talented in literature. His official position reached the level of being the governor of the day. He died in office.
Xie Lan was named Jingdi, the son of Xie Bei's younger brother Xie Man.
She was selected to marry Princess Qiantang of Qi, and became the Prince Consort, Secretary Lang, and Prince Sheren.
Emperor Gaozu became the Grand Sima, summoned Xie Lan to buyonghe to offer wine, and moved Cao, the prime minister of the country.
In the first year of Tianjian, he served as the Minister of Zhongshu and was in charge of the Ministry of Personnel. Soon he was awarded the official official position.
Xie Lan had a beautiful demeanor and was good at rhetoric. Emperor Gaozu valued him very much.
I once sat with the attendants and was ordered by the attendant Wang Chen to write poems for each other. His articles were very accurate.
Gaozu thought it was very good and asked him to redo it, which was in line with Gaozu's will.
He wrote a poem and said: The two articles were written by younger generations, and the two young men were indeed written by famous writers; even though they only have tall and thick beams in the same house, they are actually the essence of the country.
Xie Lan resigned because of his mother's death.
After the mourning, he was appointed as a concubine and took charge of the affairs of the Ministry of Civil Affairs. Soon he was appointed as a Minister of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and promoted to the rank of Shizhong.
Xie Lan liked drinking very much. Because during the banquet, he and Xiao Chen, the regular attendant of Sanqi, slandered each other and were reported by Yousi.
Emperor Gaozu believed that Xie Lan was young and immoral, so he appointed him as the chief historian of Zhongquan.
Soon after, he was ordered to take charge of the management of the East Palace and moved to General Mingwei and Prefect of Xin'an.
In the summer of the ninth year, the bandit Wu Chengbo captured Xuancheng County, and the remaining party dispersed into Xin'an. The rebellious minor official Bao Xu and others joined him, captured Mo and Fu counties, and marched to attack Xie Duo.
Xie Yu sent the county magistrate Qie Xingsi to build an earthen castle barrier at Zhongsi to fight. However, he could not resist, so he abandoned the county and fled to Heji.
After the officers and soldiers pacified the mountain bandits, Xie Lan returned to the county and was demoted to Situ to consult on joining the army, Renwei Chief of History, and concurrently acting in charge of Southern Xuzhou Affairs and Minister of the Five Soldiers.
Soon he was transferred to the position of Minister of the Ministry of Personnel.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
览自祖至孙，三世居选部，当世以为荣。
十二年春，出为吴兴太守。
中书舍人黄睦之家居乌程，子弟专横，前太守皆折节事之。
览未到郡，睦之子弟来迎，览逐去其船，杖吏为通者。
自是睦之家杜门不出，不敢与公私关通。
郡境多劫，为东道患，览下车肃然，一境清谧。
初，齐明帝及览父綍、东海徐孝嗣，并为吴兴，号称名守，览皆欲过之。昔览在新安颇聚敛，至是遂称廉洁，时人方之王怀祖。
卒于官，时年三十七。
诏赠中书令。
子罕，早卒。
陈吏部尚书姚察曰：谢朏之于宋代，盖忠义者欤？
当齐建武之世，拂衣止足，永元多难，确然独善，其疏、蒋之流乎。
洎高祖龙兴，旁求物色，角巾来仕，首陟台司，极出处之致矣！
览终能善政，君子韪之。
translation: 
Xie Lan has been in the officialdom for three generations, from his ancestors to his grandchildren, and he is proud of it in his current generation.
In the spring of the twelfth year, Xie Lan was appointed as the prefect of Wuxing.
The family of Huang Mu, a member of Zhongshushe, lived in Wucheng. His disciples were tyrannical, and the previous governor had to serve them at all costs.
Before Xie Lan arrived at the county, Muzhi's disciples came to greet him. Xie Lan drove away their boat and used a cane on the minor official who informed him of the news.
From then on, Mu's family stayed behind closed doors and did not dare to communicate with all parties, both public and private.
There are many robberies in the county, which has become a scourge on the eastern roads. As soon as Xie Lan got off the bus, the order was stable and the whole territory was quiet.
At the beginning, Zha Dantong and Xie Jian's father, Tu Xiaosi, both served as the governor of Wuxing and were known as famous governors, but Xie Lan surpassed them. In the past, Xie Lan accumulated wealth in Xin'an, and here he was known as incorruptible. People at the time compared him to Wang Huaizu.
Died in office at the age of thirty-seven.
An imperial edict was issued to posthumously donate it to Zhongshu Ling.
His son Shehan died young.
Yao Cha, Chen's official minister, said: Xie Chu was probably considered a loyal person to the Song Dynasty, right?
During the Jianwu period of Qi, he was able to stand still. During the Yongyuan period, there were many hardships, but he was unswerving and independent. He probably belonged to people like Shu and Jiang.
When Emperor Gaozu's dragon fortune arose, he was looking for people, so he came to be an official with a hermit in a scarf. He first entered the Taisi department, and it was the limit for him to retire from official service.
Xie Lan is always good at managing politics, so a gentleman should praise him.


