Chunk 0: 
original: 
昔在庖牺，观象察法，以通神明之德，以类天地之情，可以藏往知来，开物成务。
故《易》曰： 天垂象，见吉凶，圣人象之。
此则观乎天文以示变者也。
《尚书》曰： 天聪明自我民聪明。
此则观乎人文以成化者也。
是故政教兆于人理，祥变应乎天文，得失虽微，罔不昭著。
然则三皇迈德，七曜顺轨，日月无薄蚀之变，星辰靡错乱之妖。
黄帝创受《河图》，始明休咎，故其《星传》尚有存焉。
降在高阳，乃命南正重司天，北正黎司地。
爰洎帝喾，亦式序三辰。
唐虞则羲和继轨，有夏则昆吾绍德。
年代绵邈，文籍靡传。
至于殷之巫咸，周之史佚，格言遗记，于今不朽。其诸侯之史，则鲁有梓慎，晋有卜偃，郑有裨灶，宋有子韦，齐有甘德，楚有唐昧，赵有尹皋，魏有石申夫，皆掌著天文，各论图验。
其巫咸、甘、石之说，后代所宗。
暴秦燔书，六经残灭，天官星占，存而不毁。
及汉景武之际，司马谈父子继为史官，著《天官书》，以明天人之道。
其后中垒校尉刘向，广《洪范》灾条，作《皇极论》，以参往之行事。
及班固叙汉史，马续述《天文》，而蔡邕、谯周各有撰录，司马彪采之，以继前志。
今详众说，以著于篇。
古言天者有三家，一曰盖天，二曰宣夜，三曰浑天。
汉灵帝时，蔡邕于朔方上书，言 宣夜之学，绝无师法。
《周髀》术数具存，考验天状，多所违失。
translation: 
In the past, Ma Xi observed the phenomena and laws of nature with the purpose of understanding the virtues of Heaven and comprehending the true feelings between Heaven and Earth. From this, he could review the past, predict the future, reveal the truth of things, and make people and things suit their needs.
Therefore, the Book of Changes says: The heavens reveal celestial phenomena and show signs of good and bad luck, and the sages imitate these.
This is to observe the distribution and movement of the sun, moon and stars to show changes.
"Shangshu" says: The wisdom and understanding of heaven comes from the wisdom and understanding of our people.
This is to observe human ethics and culture to achieve enlightenment.
Therefore, the subtle signs of the quality of politics and religion lie in whether the people's sentiments are harmonious, changes in good and bad fortunes are in harmony with the celestial bodies and the universe, and although the gains and losses are very small, they are not unobvious.
Therefore, the three emperors were diligent and diligent, and the sun, moon and five stars followed their orbits. The sun and moon did not have the mutation of guest stars approaching thin eclipses, and the stars did not have strange phenomena of disordered movement.
Huangdi first studied the "River Map" and began to understand good and bad luck, good and evil, so his "Star Biography" is still preserved.
Later, in the Gaoyang period, Nan Zhengzhong was appointed to be in charge of astronomy, and Bei Zhengli was appointed to be in charge of geography.
When Emperor Ku was in power, he still observed the order of the sun, moon and stars.
In the Tang and Yu eras, it was the Xi family and the He family who inherited his rules, and in the Youxia era, it was Kunwu who inherited the previous rules.
However, it has been a long time and the literature and classics have not been handed down.
As for Wu Xian of the Yin Shang Dynasty and Shi Yi of the Zhou Dynasty, the historians of the vassal states, such as Zi Shen of Lu, Bu Yan of Jin, Bi Zao of Zheng, Zi Wei of Song, Gan De of Qi, Tang Mei of Chu, Yin Gao of Zhao, and Shi Shenfu of Wei, all were in charge of astronomical signs, and each discussed the fulfillment of the images.
Among them, the theories of Wu Xian, Gan De and Shi Shen Fuzhi were respected by future generations.
The tyrannical Qin Shihuang burned books, and the Six Classics were either damaged or reduced, but all the books on astronomy and stars were preserved and not destroyed.
Until the time of Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty and Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, Sima Tan and his son successively served as Taishi Ling and wrote the "Book of Heavenly Officials" to clarify the laws between heaven and man.
After that, Liu Xiang, the lieutenant of the Central Base, expanded the records of disaster laws in "Hong Fan" and compiled "Huang Ji Lun" to refer to past events.
When Ban Gu wrote the "Book of Han", Ma Xu wrote "Tianwen", Cai Yong, Qiao Zhou and others also wrote their own records. Sima Biao used the writings of these people to continue various previous records.
Now I have recorded everyone’s teachings in detail and written the following article.
In ancient times, there were three relevant theories proposed. One advocated the Gaitian theory, the other advocated the Xuanye theory, and the other advocated the Huntian theory.
During the reign of Emperor Ling of the Han Dynasty, Cai Yong wrote a letter to Shuofang, saying in the book: Xuan Ye's theory has no basis for learning.
All the mathematical arguments in "Zhou Bi" have been preserved, and there are many things that violate the facts when examining and testing the conditions of celestial bodies.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
惟浑天近得其情，今史官候台所用铜仪则其法也。
立八尺圆体而具天地之形，以正黄道，占察发敛，以行日月，以步五纬，精微深妙，百代不易之道也。
官有其器而无本书，前志亦阙 。
蔡邕所谓《周髀》者，即盖天之说也。
其本庖牺氏立周天历度，其所传则周公受于殷商，周人志之，故曰《周髀》。
髀，股也；股者，表也。
其言天似盖笠，地法覆槃，天地各中高外下。
北极之下为天地之中，其地最高，而滂沲四隤，三光隐映，以为昼夜。
天中高于外衡冬至日之所在六万里，北极下地高于外衡下地亦六万里，外衡高于北极下地二万里。
天地隆高相从，日去地恆八万里。
日丽天而平转，分冬夏之间日所行道为七衡六间。
每衡周径里数，各依算术，用句股重差推晷影极游，以为远近之数，皆得于表股者也。故曰《周髀》。
又《周髀》家云： 天圆如张盖，地方如棋局。
天旁转如推磨而左行，日月右行，随天左转，故日月实东行，而天牵之以西没。
譬之于蚁行磨石之上，磨左旋而蚁右去，磨疾而蚁迟，故不得不随磨以左回焉。
天形南高而北下，日出高，故见；日入下，故不见。天之居如倚盖，故极在人北，是其证也。极在天之中，而今在人北，所以知天之形如倚盖也。
日朝出阳中，暮入阴中，阴气暗冥，故没不见也。
夏时阳气多，阴气少，阳气光明，与日同辉，故日出即见，无蔽之者，故夏日长也。
冬天阴气多，阳气少，阴气暗冥，掩日之光，虽出犹隐不见，故冬日短也。
translation: 
Only the theory of armillary sky is close to the actual situation of the sky. The armillary sphere used in the Shiguanshi observatory now follows the laws of the theory of armillary sky.
Build an eight-foot-tall sphere to give it the shape of heaven and earth, determine the orbit of the sun around the earth, observe its appearance and disappearance, and grasp the laws of the sun and moon. Calculating the positions of the five planets is so precise and subtle that it is a method that has been passed down forever and remains unchanged.
The government retained this instrument but did not have the original Huntian Shuo, and the previous records were incomplete.
The book "Zhou Bi" mentioned by Cai Yong is the theory of Gaitian.
It originated from the Zhou Tian Calendar created by the Pao Xi clan. It was passed down to the Duke of Zhou from the Yin Shang Dynasty and recorded by the people of the Zhou Dynasty, so it is called "Zhou Bi".
Bi, is the stock; stock, is the watch for observing the projection of the sun.
According to it, the sky is like a He-shaped umbrella cover and bamboo hat, and the earth is like a big buckled plate. Both the sky and the earth are high in the middle and low on the sides.
Below the North Celestial Pole is the center of the sky and the earth. The terrain here is the highest, while the surrounding areas slope downward. The three lights of the sun, moon and stars alternately disappear and appear, thus forming day and night.
The center of the sky is sixty thousand miles higher than where the outer scale is at the winter solstice. The low point of the North Pole is sixty thousand miles higher than where the outer scale is at the winter solstice. The low point of the North Pole is also 60,000 miles higher than the low point of the external scale, and the external scale is 20,000 miles higher than the low point of the North Pole.
The heights of the sky and the earth correspond to each other, and the sun's height above the ground is always 80,000 miles.
The sun is attached to the sky and moves in parallel, dividing the sun's orbit between winter and summer into seven and six compartments.
The length of each moon's circumference is calculated according to the rules of operation, using the Pythagorean theorem and weight difference to infer the situation where the sundial shadow becomes the longest and the shortest, and uses this as the distance data. These all come from the established table and the projection of the table. That’s why it’s called “Zhou Bi”.
People who study "Zhou Bi" think: The sky is round, like a big open umbrella, and the earth is square, like a chessboard.
The sky moves to the left like a grindstone, and the sun and moon rotate to the right, but they also turn to the left with the movement of the celestial bodies, so the sun and moon actually move eastward, and they sink to the west due to the constraints of the celestial body.
It's like ants crawling on a millstone. The millstone rotates to the left and the ants crawl to the right. The millstone rotates fast and the ants crawl slowly, so they have to follow the direction of the millstone and turn to the left.
The overall shape of the celestial body is like a large leaning umbrella, so people at the pole are to the north. This is proof that the pole was originally in the middle of the celestial body, but now it is to the north of people, so we can know that the shape of the sky is like a large leaning umbrella.
The sun rises from Yang in the morning and falls into Yin at night. The Yin energy is dark and obscure, so it disappears and cannot be seen.
In summer, Yang Qi is strong and Yin Qi is weak. Yin Qi shines brightly and is as brilliant as the sun, so you can see the sun as soon as it comes out and nothing can block it, so the daytime is longer in summer.
In winter, the Yin energy is strong and the Yang energy is weak. The Yin energy is dark and obscures the brilliance of the sun. Although the sun comes out, it still seems to be invisible, so the briefing day time is short.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
宣夜之书亡，惟汉秘书郎郗萌记先师相传云： 天了无质，仰而瞻之，高远无极，眼瞀精绝，故苍苍然也。
譬之旁望远道之黄山而皆青，俯察千仞之深谷而窈黑，夫青非真色，而黑非有体也。
日月众星，自然浮生虚空之中，其行其止皆须气焉。
是以七曜或逝或住，或顺或逆，伏见无常，进退不同，由乎无所根系，故各异也。
故辰极常居其所，而北斗不与众星西没也。
摄提、填星皆东行，日行一度，月行十三度，迟疾任情，其无所系著可知矣。
若缀附天体，不得尔也。
成帝咸康中，会稽虞喜因宣夜之说作《安天论》，以为 天高穷于无穷，地深测于不测。
天确乎在上，有常安之形；地塊焉在下，有居静之体。
当相覆冒，方则俱方，圆则俱圆，无方圆不同之义也。
其光曜布列，各自运行，犹江海之有潮汐，万品之有行藏也 。
葛洪闻而讥之曰： 苟辰宿不丽于天，天为无用，便可言无，何必复云有之而不动乎？
由此而谈，稚川可谓知言之选也。
虞喜族祖河间相耸又立穹天论云： 天形穹隆如鸡子，幕其际，周接四海之表，浮于元气之上。
譬如覆奁以抑水，而不没者，气充其中故也。
日绕辰极，没西而还东，不出入地中。
天之有极，犹盖之有斗也。
天北下于地三十度，极之倾在地卯酉之北亦三十度，人在卯酉之南十馀万里，故斗极之下不为地中，当对天地卯酉之位耳。
日行黄道绕极，极北去黄道百一十五度，南去黄道六十七度，二至之所舍以为长短也。
吴太常姚信造昕天论云： 人为灵虫，形最似天。
今人颐前侈临胸，而项不能覆背。
translation: 
All the books promoting Xuan Ye's theory have been lost. Only Han secretary Lang Ximeng recorded the legend of the late master: The sky has no texture at all. Looking up at it, it is so high and high that there is no limit. It is dazzling and full of energy, so it looks like a vast expanse.
For example, the loess mountains in the distance all appear cyan, while overlooking the thousand-foot-deep valley, they all appear dark. The green color is not the original color; the black color is not because of something.
The sun, moon and stars naturally float in the void, and their movements and stops all depend on the atmosphere.
Therefore, the seven stars sometimes disappear and sometimes appear, sometimes move forward and sometimes retrograde. There are no party rules for hiding and appearing, and their advancement and regression are also different. This is because they have no foundation to tie them together, so each one is different.
So the North Star is always in that fixed position, and the Big Dipper does not set with the other stars.
The stars Sagitti and Saturn both move eastward, one degree per day and thirteen degrees per month. The speed is very arbitrary and there is no rule, so it is feasible to know that it has nothing to do with it.
If it is attached to the celestial body, it cannot be like this.
During the reign of Emperor Cheng of Xiankang, Yu Xi of Kuaiji wrote "An Tian Lun" based on Xuan Ye's theory, arguing that: The sky is very high and endless, and the earth is very deep and unfathomable.
The sky is knotted and high above, and has the shape of constant stability; the earth is solid and real, and has a static and unchanging body below.
They should cover each other, the square will be square, the circle will be full circle, there is no reason why the square and the circle are different.
Their illumination, arrangement, and their respective movements are just like the tides of the river and the sea, and like all things having their own behavior and behavior.
When Ge Hong heard about it, he laughed at him and said: If the stars do not appear in the sky, the sky is of no use. You can say that it does not exist. Why should you say that it exists and does not move?
From this point of view, it can be said that Wakkagawa understands that discussion must be a choice.
Yu Xi's grandfather, Hejian Xiang Yushu, wrote "Lun on the Sky" and said: The shape of the celestial body is bulging in the middle and drooping around, like an egg in its shell. Its surrounding edges are connected to the edges of the four seas and float on the vitality.
It's like an upside-down basin placed on top of running water. The reason it doesn't sink is because the gas fills it.
The sun moves around the north, sets in the west, and rises in the east, without entering or leaving the earth.
The sky has four poles, just like there must be a bucket on the umbrella cover.
The north side of the celestial body is tilted downward by 30 degrees. The bottom of the pole is 30 degrees north of the corresponding point on the earth. People are more than 100,000 miles south of the corresponding point. Therefore, below the north celestial pole is not the center of the earth, but should be facing the position of the corresponding point on the sky and the earth.
The sun moves along the ecliptic around the pole, and the north of the pole is 115 degrees from the ecliptic, and the south is 67 degrees from the ecliptic. The length of the stop at the winter solstice and summer solstice has a difference in time.
Wu Taichang and Yao Xin wrote "Xintian Lun", saying: Man is the spirit of all things, and his body is most like the sky.
Nowadays, people's chin protrudes forward and above the chest, and the neck cannot cover the back.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
近取诸身，故知天之体南低入地，北则偏高。
又冬至极低，而天运近南，故日去人远，而斗去人近，北天气至，故冰寒也。
夏至极起，而天运近北，故斗去人远，日去人近，南天气至，故蒸热也。
极之立时，日行地中浅，故夜短；天去地高，故昼长也。
极之低时，日行地中深，故夜长；天去地下，故昼短也。
自虞喜、虞耸、姚信皆好奇徇异之说，非极数谈天者也。
至于浑天理妙，学者多疑。
汉王仲任据盖天之说，以驳浑仪云： 旧说天转从地下过。
今掘地一丈辄有水，天何得从水中行乎？
甚不然也。
日随天而转，非入地。
夫有目所望，不过十里，天地合矣；实非合也，远使然耳。
今视日入，非入也，亦远耳。
当日入西方之时，其下之人亦将谓之为中也。
四方之人，各以其所近者为出，远者为入矣。何以明之？
今试使一人把大炬火，夜行于平地，去人十里，火光灭矣；非灭也。远使然耳。
今日西转不复见，是火灭之类也。
日月不员也，望视之所从员者，去人远也。
夫日，火之精也；月，水之精也。
水火在地下员，在天何故员？
故丹阳葛洪释之曰：《浑天仪注》云： 天如鸡子，地如鸡中黄，孤居于天内，天大而地小。
天表里有水，天地各乘气而立，载水而行。
周天三百六十五度四分度之一，又中分之，则半覆地上，半绕地下，故二十八宿半见半隐，天转如车毂之运也。
诸论天者虽多，然精于阴阳者少。
translation: 
The near side is taken from itself, so we know that the south side of the celestial body is low and tilts into the earth, while the north side is higher.
In addition, during the winter solstice, the pole is low and the sky is close to the south, so the sun is far away from people and the head is close to people. The air from the north comes, so it is cold.
During the summer solstice, the pole rises and the sky approaches to the north, so the bucket is far away from people, the sun is close to people, and the air from the south comes, so it is very muggy.
When the pole is high, the sun moves shallowly into the earth, so the night is short; the sky is high above the ground, so the day is long.
When the pole is low, the sun moves deeper into the earth, so the night time is longer; the sky is lower than the earth, so the day time is short.
Yu Xi, Yu Sheng, Yao Xin and others all liked novelty and pursued mysterious theories, but they were not people who devoted themselves to discussing astronomy and its principles.
As for the subtleties of the theory of Hun Tian theory, most scholars have doubts.
Wang Zhongren of the Han Dynasty refuted the armillary sphere theory based on the theory of Gaitian: The book states that celestial bodies move from underground to edge.
Nowadays, there is water even one foot deep under the ground. How can the sky move through water?
Very incorrect.
The sun moves with the celestial bodies and does not go underground.
What human eyes can see is only ten miles away. They see the sky and the earth together, but they are not actually together. They are too far away to make them look like this.
Now when I see the sun setting, it is not actually setting, it is also due to the distance.
When the sun sets in the west, people below it also call it central.
People all around just call the sun out when it is close to them, and say it sets when it is far away from them. What invention is based on this?
Now try to ask a person to hold a large torch and walk on flat ground at night. Ten miles away from the person, the fire seems to have gone out. In fact, it has not gone out. It is the distance that makes it so.
Now that the sun is moving westward, it is no longer visible. It is a matter of extinguishing the torch.
The sun and the moon are not round. The reason why they appear round is because they are too far away from people.
Translation: The sun is the essence of fire, and the moon is the essence of water.
Water and fire are not round on earth, why are they round in heaven?
Therefore, Danyang Gehong explained: "Notes on the Armillary Sphere" says: The celestial body is like an egg, and the earth is like the yolk in the egg. It is alone within the celestial body. The sky is big and the earth is small.
There is water everywhere in the celestial body, and the sky and the earth each stand on the basis of energy and move on the basis of water.
A circle of celestial bodies is 365 and a quarter degrees, and it is divided in the middle, so half is covered on the ground and half is surrounded by the ground. Therefore, the twenty-eight constellations are half hidden and half visible, and the movement of the celestial bodies is like the movement of a wheel.
Although there are many people who talk about astronomy, there are very few people who are proficient in the study of yin and yang.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
张平子、陆公纪之徒，咸以为推步七曜之道，以度历象昏明之证候，校以四八之气，考以漏刻之分，占晷景之往来，求形验于事情，莫密于浑象者也。
张平子既作铜浑天仪，于密室中以漏水转之，令伺之者闭户而唱之。
其伺之者以告灵台之观天者曰： 璇玑所加，某星始见，某星已中，某星今没 ，皆如合符也。
崔子玉为其碑铭曰： 数术穷天地，制作侔造化，高才伟艺，与神合契。
盖由于平子浑仪及地动仪之有验故也。
若天果如浑者，则天之出入行于水中，为的然矣。
故黄帝书曰， 天在地外，水在天外 ，水浮天而载地者也。
又《易》曰： 时乘六龙。
夫阳爻称龙，龙者居水之物，以喻天。
天，阳物也，又出入水中，与龙相似，故以比龙也。
圣人仰观俯察，审其如此，故《晋》卦《坤》下《离》上，以证日出于地也。
又《明夷》之卦《离》下《坤》上，以证日入于地也。
《需》卦《乾》下《坎》上，此亦天入水中之象也。
天为金，金水相生之物也。
天出入水中，当有何损，而谓为不可乎？
故桓君山曰： 春分日出卯入酉，此乃人之卯酉。天之卯酉，常值斗极为天中。
今视之乃在北，不正在人上。
而春秋分时，日出入乃在斗极之南。
若如磨右转，则北方道远而南方道近，昼夜漏刻之数不应等也。
后奏事待报，坐西廊庑下，以寒故暴背。有顷，日光出去，不复暴背。
君山乃告信盖天者曰： 天若如推磨右转而日西行者，其可知矣。
然则天出入水中，无复疑矣。
又今视诸星出于东者，初但去地小许耳。
渐而西行，先经人上，从遂西转而下焉，不旁旋也。
translation: 
Zhang Pingzhi, Lu Gongji and others all believed that the laws of the Big Dipper could be used to calculate the laws of the Big Dipper, analyze the dark and bright celestial phenomena in the calendar, correct them with the weather conditions of the four o'clock and eight seasons, assess the timing of the clepsydra, predict the coming and going of the sun's shadow, test the effectiveness of micro-signs in specific things, etc. There is nothing more precise than the armillary sphere.
After Zhang Wei made a copper armillary sphere, he used water leakage to rotate it in a secret room, and ordered the observers to close the door and read out the results.
Those observers told those observing the astronomical phenomena on the spiritual platform: What appeared on the sky measuring instrument was that such and such a star began to appear, such and such a star rose into the zenith, and such and such a star has now disappeared.
Everything is consistent with reality. Cui Ziyu wrote an inscription for him and said: The knowledge of heaven and calendar is the best in the world, the technology of controlling instruments is equal to that of nature, and the superb talents are in line with the will of the gods.
This is all because Zhang Pingzi's armillary sphere and seismograph are very effective.
If the celestial bodies are really as the Huntian theory says, then the entry and exit of the celestial bodies moving in the water will be very obvious.
Therefore, the Yellow Emperor's book says: The sky is outside the earth, and the water is outside the sky. Water floats in the sky and carries the earth.
Also, the Book of Changes says: Yang Qi rides on the six dragons in due time.
The Yang Yao is called a dragon. The dragon is an animal that lives in water. It is used as a metaphor for the sky.
Heaven is a yang, and it goes in and out of water. It is similar to a dragon, so it is used as a comparison.
The sage looks up at the sky and down at the earth, and knows that they are like this, so the hexagrams of the "Jin" hexagram are "Kun" at the bottom and "Li" at the top, which is used to prove that the sun comes from the ground.
In addition, the hexagram images of the "Ming Yi" hexagram are "Li" at the bottom and "Kun" at the top, which proves that the sun enters the ground.
The hexagram image of the "Need" hexagram is "Qian" at the bottom and "Kan" at the top, which proves the subtle image of heaven entering the water.
The sky is gold, and gold and water are mutually reinforcing things.
What kind of trouble would there be if the sky goes in and out of the water? Why do you think this is not possible?
Therefore, Huan Junshan said: On the vernal equinox, when the sun rises from the Mao hour and sets at the You hour, it often encounters the Big Dipper and the North Star in the middle of the sky.
Now it seems to be in the north, not on people's heads.
During the spring and autumn equinoxes, the sun rises and sets south of the North Pole of the Beidou.
If it turns right like a millstone, then the road to the north is far and the road to the south is short, the number of day and night ticks should not be equal.
Later, I had something to report and was waiting for a report. I sat on the west corridor, and because of the cold, the sun was shining on my back. After a while, the light came out of the corridor, not shining on my back.
Junshan told those who believed in the Gaitian theory: If the celestial body rotates to the right like a grindstone and the sun moves west, then the shadow of the sun should shine on the lower section of this corridor and head east, and should not escape.
Leaving out is what Hun Tian Lun says in the dead of night. Hun Tian Xue discusses the true form of celestial bodies, which Yu Yu can understand.
Then there is no doubt that the sky comes from the water. Moreover, when you look at the stars rising from the east, they are only a little distance from the ground at first.
It gradually runs westward, first passing over the top of Rentai, then turning and running until it falls without turning sideways.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
其先在西之星，亦稍下而没，无北转者。
日之出入亦然。
若谓天磨右转者，日之出入亦然，众日月宜随夫而回，初在于东，次经于南，次到于西，次及于北，而复还于东，不应横过去也。今日出于东，冉冉转上，及其入西，亦复渐渐稍下，都不绕边北去。
了了如此，王生必固谓为不然者，疏矣。
今日径千里，围周三千里，中足以当小星之数十也。
若日以转远之故，但当光曜不能复来照及人耳，宜犹望见其体，不应都失其所在也。
日光既盛，其体又大于星多矣。
今见极北之小星，而不见日之在北者，明其不北行也。
若日以转还之故，不复可见，其北入之间，应当稍小，而日方入之时乃更大，此非转远之徵也。
王生以火炬喻日，吾亦将借子之矛以刺子之楯焉。
把火之人去人转远，其光转微，而日月自出至入，不渐小也。
王生以火喻之，谬矣。
又日之入西方，视之稍稍去，初尚有半，如横破镜之状，须臾沦没矣。
若如王生之言，日转北去有半者，其北都没之顷，宜先如竖破镜之状，不应如横破镜也。
如此言之，日入西方，不亦孤于乎？
又月之光微，不及日远矣。
月盛之时，虽有重云敝之，不见月体，而夕犹朗然，是光犹从云中而照外也。
日若绕西及北者，其光故应如月在云中之状，不得夜便大暗也。
又日入则星月出焉。
明知天以日月分主昼夜，相代而照也。
若日常出者，不应日亦入而星月亦出也。
又案《河》、《洛》之文，皆云水火者，阴阳之余气也。
夫言余气，则不能生日月可知也，顾当言日精生火者可耳。
若水火是日月所生，则亦何得尽如日月之员乎？
今火出于阳燧，阳燧员而火不员也；水出于方诸，方诸方而水不方也。
又阳燧可以取火于日，而无取日于火之理，此则日精之生火明矣，方诸可以取水于月，而无取月于水之道，此则月精之生水了矣。
translation: 
The stars that were originally in the west also disappeared slightly, and none of them turned to the north.
The same goes for the sun's entry and exit.
If the sky is like a millstone rotating to the right, the sun, moon and stars should also rotate with the celestial bodies, first in the east and finally back to the east. They should not turn sideways. Now the sun appears from the east and rises slowly upward. When it turns to the west and sets, it gradually moves downward and never goes around to the north.
It is clearly the case, but Wang Sheng must insist that it is not the case. It is really crude and shallow!
Today, the sun has a diameter of one thousand miles and a circumference of three thousand miles, which is enough to support dozens of small stars.
If because the sun is getting farther and farther, it should just be that the light can no longer shine on people, but it should still be visible, and it should not completely disappear.
Since the exposure is very strong, its individual size is much larger than the stars.
Now that I can see the little stars in the north, but I can't see the sun in the north, I know that the sun has no mechanism to move northward.
If the sun is no longer visible because it is far away, then it should be slightly smaller when it is about to set, but it will be larger when it is about to set. This does not mean that the sun has become farther away.
Wang Sheng used a torch to compare the sun, so I used the spear of the son to pierce the shield of the son.
As the person holding the dissenting torch gets farther and farther away from the person, the light of the fire becomes weaker and weaker, but the light of the sun and the moon does not gradually become smaller from rising to setting.
Wang Sheng used the metaphor of a torch, which is very absurd. translate
Furthermore, when the sun sets in the west, it seems to be setting little by little. At first, it is half-way, like a broken circular mirror lying horizontally, and then it completely sets.
If, as Wang Sheng said, the sun has turned halfway to the north, when it is about to disappear completely to the north, it should first take on the shape of a broken mirror standing upright, not like a broken mirror lying horizontally.
Speaking of which, isn't it strange that the sun sets in the north?
Besides, the moon's light is weak, far inferior to that of the sun.
When the moon is strong, although it is covered by thick clouds and the moon's body cannot be seen, the night is still clear and the light still shines from the clouds to the outside.
If the sun goes around the west and turns to the north, its light should be like the moon in thick clouds, and it should not be very dark at night.
In addition, as soon as the sun sets, the stars and the moon appear.
It is clear that the sky uses the sun and the moon to control day and night respectively, alternating with each other and shining.
If the sun always appears, it should not be that the sun also disappears and the stars and the moon appear.
According to the texts in "He Yuan" and "Luo Shu", it is said that water and fire are the remaining qi of yin and yang.
If it is said to be residual energy, then it is conceivable that it cannot be born from the sun and the moon, but it should be said that the sun essence can produce fire.
If water and fire are produced by the sun and the moon, how can they be as round as the sun and the moon?
Now the fire comes out of the concave bronze mirror Yang Sui, the Yang Sui is round but the fire is not round; the water comes out of the water-drawing utensil square Zhuzhong, it is square in all directions but the water is not square.
Furthermore, Yang Sui can draw fire from the sun, but there is no reason to draw the sun from fire, so it is very clear that the sun spirit produces fire; Fang Zhu can draw water from the moon, but there is no reason to draw the moon from water, so it is also very clear that the moon spirit produces water.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
王生又云远故视之员。
若审然者，月初生之时及既亏之后，何以视之不员乎？
而日食或上或下，从侧而起，或如钩至尽。
若远视见员，不宜见其残缺左右所起也。
此则浑天之理，信而有徵矣。
◎仪象《虞书》曰： 在旋玑玉衡，以齐七政。 《考灵曜》云： 分寸之咎，代天气生，以制方员。
方员以成，参以规矩。
昏明主时，乃命中星观玉仪之游。
郑玄谓以玉为浑仪也。
《春秋文曜钩》云： 唐尧既位，羲和立浑仪。
此则仪象之设，其来远矣。
绵代相传，史官禁密，学者不睹，故宣、盖沸腾。
暨汉太初，落下闳、鲜于妄人、耿寿昌等造员仪以考历度。
后至和帝时，贾选逵系作，又加黄道。
至顺帝时，张衡又制浑象，具内外规、南北极、黄赤道，列二十四气、二十八宿中外星官及日月五纬，以漏水转之于殿上室内，星中出没与天相应。
因其关戾，又转瑞轮蓂荚于阶下，随月虚盈，依历开落。
其后陆绩亦造浑象。
至吴时，中常侍庐江王蕃善数术，传刘洪《乾象历》，依其法而制浑仪，立论考度曰：
前儒旧说天地之体，状如鸟卵，天包地外，犹壳之果黄也；周旋无端，其形浑浑然，故曰浑天也。周天三百六十五度五百八十九分度之百四十五，半覆地上，半在地下。
其二端谓之南极、北极。
北极出地三十六度，南极入地三十六度，两极相去一百八十二度半强。
绕北极径七十二度，常见不隐，谓之上规。
绕南极七十二度，常隐不见，谓之下规。赤道带天之纮，去两极各九十一度少强。
translation: 
Wang Sheng also said that it looked round because it was far away.
If this is indeed the case, why does the moon look out of round when it first rises and after it is no longer round?
The solar eclipse is sometimes above and sometimes below, waning from the side, sometimes like a hook until it is invisible.
If you look at a cloud from a distance and it looks round, you should not see the appearance caused by its incomplete left and right sides.
From this point of view, the theory of Hun Tian is true and well-founded.
"Yu Shu" said: Examine the astronomical instruments such as jade scales to identify the sun, moon and five stars. "Kao Ling Yao" said: The tiny sun and moon appear instead of time to determine the radius.
After the square and circle are made, refer to the rules and regulations.
The Lord distinguishes time between night and day, and orders the stars to observe the movement of the armillary sphere.
Zheng Xuan said that it was an armillary sphere made of jade.
"Spring and Autumn Wen Yao Gou" says: After Tang Yao came to power, Xihe created the armillary sphere.
It seems that the setting and use of the astronomical instrument has a long history.
It has been passed down from generation to generation, and historians strictly guarded the secrets. Scholars have never seen it, so Xuanye theory and Gaitian theory are flourishing and popular.
In the early years of the Han Dynasty, Luo Xiahong, Xianyu Wangren, Geng Shouchang and others created Yuanyi to calculate degrees.
Later, during the reign of Emperor He, Jia Kui continued research and production, and added the orbit of the sun around the earth.
At the time of Emperor Shun, Zhang Heng made an armillary sphere, which had inner and outer rules, the north and south poles, the ecliptic, etc., and listed the twenty-four solar terms, the twenty-eight internal and external astronomical phenomena, the sun, the moon, and the five stars of metal, wood, water, fire and earth. He used water leakage to make it rotate in the room above the main hall. The appearance of the stars on the instrument corresponded to the celestial phenomena in the dead of night.
The mutual rotation drives the moon and auspicious grass below to bloom and fall according to the calendar as the moon waxes and wanes.
After that, Lu Ji also made the armillary sphere.
During the time of the Wu Kingdom, Wang Fan, the Chief Minister of Lujiang, was good at astronomy and calendar. He taught Liu Hong's "Qianxiang Calendar" and made the armillary sphere according to the above rules. He established the argument and examined the discussion and said:
The old theory of scholars in the past is that the shape of the sky and the earth is like a bird's egg, with the sky wrapped outside the earth, just like the egg shell wrapping the yolk; the cycle runs endlessly, and its shape is chaotic and unclear, so it is called the Huntian. A circle around the sky is 145 of 365 degrees 589 degrees, half of it is covered on the ground, and the other half is hidden underground.
Its two ends are called the South Pole and the North Pole.
The North Pole is 36 degrees above the ground, and the South Pole is 36 degrees underground. The difference between the two poles is more than 182 and a half degrees.
The path around the North Pole is 72 degrees, and there are always invisible clouds, which are called the upper reaches.
The seventy-two degrees surrounding the South Pole are often hidden and not visible, and are called the lower circumference. The equator surrounds the circumference of the celestial body, and is a little over ninety-one degrees from the two poles.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
黄道，日之所行也，半在赤道外，半在赤道内，与赤道东交于角五少弱，西交于奎十四少强。
其出赤道外极远者，去赤道二十四度，斗二十一度是也。
其入赤道内极远者，亦二十四度，井二十五度是也。
日南至在斗二十一度，去极百一十五度少强。
是也日最南，去极最远，故景最长。
黄道斗二十一度，出辰入申，故日亦出辰入申。
日昼行地上百四十六度强，故日短；夜行地下二百一十九度少弱，故夜长。
自南至之后，日去极稍近，故景稍短。
日昼行地上度稍多，故日稍长；夜行地下度稍少，故夜稍短。
日所在度稍北，故日稍北，以至于夏至，日在井二十五度，去极六十七度少强，是日最北，去极最近，景最短。黄道井二十五度，出寅入戌，故日亦出寅入戌。
日昼行地上二百一十九度少弱，故日长；夜行地下百四十六度强，故夜短。
自夏至之后，日去极稍远，故景稍长。日昼行地上度稍少，故日稍短；夜行地下度稍多，故夜稍长。
日所在度稍南，故日出入稍南，以至于南至而复初焉。
斗二十一，井二十五，南北相应四十八度。
春分日在奎十四少强，秋分日在角五少弱，此黄赤二道之交中也。
去极俱九十一度少强。南北处斗二十一，井二十五之中，故景居二至长短之中。
奎十四，角五，出卯入酉，故日亦出卯入酉。
日昼行地上，夜行地下，俱百八十二度半强，故日见之漏五十刻，不见之漏五十刻，谓之昼夜同。
夫天之昼夜以日出没为分，人之昼夜以昏明为限。
日未出二刻半而明，日入二刻半而昏，故损夜五刻以益昼，是以春秋分漏昼五十五刻。
三光之行，不必有常，术家以算求之，各有同异，故诸家历法参差不齐。
translation: 
The ecliptic is the orbit of the sun, half of which is outside the equator and half of which is within the equator. It intersects with the equator at less than five degrees of Spica in the east and a little more than 14 degrees of Spica in the west.
Those far away from the outer pole of the equator are twenty-four degrees from the equator and twenty-one degrees from the stars.
Those that go very far into the equator are also 24 degrees, and 25 degrees from the well star.
At the winter solstice, the sun is on the 21st degree of the Dipper Star, a little over 1115 degrees from the pole.
On this day, the sun is closest to the south and farthest from the pole, so the sun's shadow is the longest.
On the 21st day of the zodiac, the Morning Dipper is in the Chen hour and is not in the Shen hour. Therefore, the sun is also in the Chen hour and is not in the Shen hour.
The sun travels above the earth at more than 146 degrees during the day, so the daytime is short; the sun travels below the ground at night by a little less than 219 degrees, so the nighttime is long.
Since the winter solstice, the sun has gradually become closer to the pole, so the solar shadow has gradually become shorter.
The number of degrees the sun moves above the ground during the day gradually increases, so the daytime becomes longer; the number of degrees it moves underground during the night gradually decreases, so the night time gradually becomes shorter.
The sun's degree gradually moves toward the north, so the sun also gradually moves toward the north. When the summer solstice comes, the sun is at 25 degrees of Jingxing, a little more than 67 degrees from the pole. On this day, the sun is most northward, closest to the pole, and the sun's shadow is the shortest.
The sun travels a little less than 219 degrees above the ground during the day, so the day time is long; it travels a little more than 146 degrees underground at night, so the night time is short.
After the summer solstice, the sun gradually becomes farther away from the pole, so the sun's shadow gradually becomes longer. The degree of the sun's movement above the ground during the day gradually decreases, so the day time gradually becomes shorter. The degree of the sun's movement mechanism underground at night gradually increases, so the night time becomes longer.
The degree of the sun gradually moves southward, so the sun's entry and exit also gradually moves southward, and it returns to its original state by the winter solstice.
The fighting star is at twenty-one degrees, the well star is at twenty-five degrees, and the corresponding points of north and south are forty-eight degrees.
On the vernal equinox, the sun is slightly more than fourteen degrees from the star Kui. On the autumnal equinox, the sun is slightly less than five degrees from the star star. This is the center where the ecliptic and the equator intersect.
The distance from the pole is a little more than 91 degrees, and the north and south are at 21 degrees from the Dipper Star and 25 degrees from the Well Star, so the sun's shadow is between the winter solstice and the summer solstice, one longer and one shorter.
The Kui star has fourteen degrees and the angle star has five degrees. It comes out of Mao time and enters You time, so the sun also comes out of Mao time and enters You time.
The sun moves above the ground during the day and moves underground at night, both at more than 182 and a half degrees. Therefore, the sun appears for fifty moments and does not appear for fifty moments. This is called day and night being equal.
The day and night of the celestial body are divided by the rise and fall of the sun, and the day and night of humans are divided by darkness and brightness.
It will be bright two and a half quarters before the sun rises, and the sky will become dark two and a half quarters after the sun sets, so five quarters of night time are reduced to make up for the day. Therefore, the day of the spring and autumn equinoxes is fifty-five degrees.
The movement of the three lights of the sun, moon and stars does not have to follow certain rules. Scholars who are good at astronomy and calendar use calculation methods to verify, and each has similarities and differences, so the calendars that can be seen from the inside are also uneven.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
《洛书甄曜度》、《春秋考异邮》皆云： 周天一百七万一千里，一度为二千九百三十二里七十一步二尺七寸四分四百八十七分分之三百六十二。
陆绩云： 天东西南北径三十五万七千里。
此言周三径一也。
考之径一不啻周三，率周百四十二而径四十五，则天径三十二万九千四百一里一百二十二步二尺二寸一分七十一分分之十。
《周礼》： 日至之景尺有五寸，谓之地中。
郑众说： 土圭之长尺有五寸，以夏至之日立八尺之表，其景与土圭等，谓之地中，今颍川阳城地也。
郑玄云： 凡日景于地，千里而差一寸，景尺有五寸者，南戴日下万五千里也。
以此推之，日当去其下地八万里矣。
日邪射阳城，则天径之半也。
天体员如弹丸，地处天之半，而阳城为中，则日春秋冬夏，昏明昼夜，去阳城皆等，无盈缩矣。
故知从日邪射阳城，为天径之半也。
以句股法言之，旁万五千里，句也；立八万里，股也；从日邪射阳城，弦也。
以句股求弦法入之，得八万一千三百九十四里三十步五尺三寸六分，天径之半而地上去天之数也。
倍之，得十六万二千七百八十八里六十一步四尺七寸二分，天径之数也。
以周率乘之，径率约之，得五十一万三千六百八十七里六十八步一尺八寸二分，周天之数也。
减《甄曜度》、《考异邮》五十五万七千三百一十七里有奇。
一度凡千四百六里百二十四步六寸四分十万七千五百六十五分分之万九千四十九，减旧度千五百二十五里二百五十六步三尺三寸二十一万五千一百三十分分之十六万七百三十。
分黄赤二道，相兴交错，其间相去二十四度。
以两仪推之，二道俱三百六十五度有奇，是以知天体员如弹丸也。
而陆绩造浑象，其形如鸟卵，然则黄道应长于赤道矣。
绩云 天东西南北径三十五万七千里 ，然则绩亦以天形正员也，而浑象为鸟卵，则为自相违背。
古旧浑象以二分为一度，凡周七尺三寸半分。
张衡更制，以四分为一度，凡周一丈四尺六寸一分。
◎天文经星《洪范传曰》： 清而明者，天之体也。天忽变色，是谓易常。
天裂，阳不足，是谓臣强。
translation: 
"Luoshu Zhen Yaodu" and "Chunqiu Kao Yiyou" both say: A circle around the sky is one hundred and seventy-one thousand miles, and one time is two thousand nine hundred and thirty-two miles, seventy-one steps, two feet and seven inches.
Lu Ji said: The diameter of heaven from east to west, north to south is 357,000 miles.
This means that the ratio of circumference to diameter is three to one.
Consider that the diameter is one and the circumference is not just three. The circumference is approximately one hundred and forty-two and the diameter is forty-five. Then the diameter of the celestial body is three hundred and twenty-nine thousand four hundred and one miles, one hundred and twenty-two steps, two feet, two inches, one minute and seventy-one-tenths.
"Zhou Rites": The shadow of the sun at the summer solstice is one foot and five inches long, which is called the middle of the earth.
Zheng Zhong said: The length of the Tugui used to measure the sun's shadow is one foot and five inches. On the summer solstice, an eight-foot jinghua watch was erected. Its shadow length is equal to that of the Tugui, and it is called Dizhong, which is the current place in Yangcheng, Yingchuan.
Zheng Xuan said: When the shadow of the sun falls on the ground, the difference is one inch per thousand miles. The reason why the shadow is one foot and five inches long is precisely because the sun in the south is fifteen thousand miles away.
Based on this calculation, the sun should be 80,000 miles away from the earth below it.
The sun's oblique angle to Yangcheng is exactly half the diameter of the celestial body.
The celestial body is round like a projectile, the earth is in half of the celestial body, and Yangcheng is in the middle, so the sun is the same distance from Yangcheng in spring, autumn, winter, summer, night or day, without increasing or decreasing.
Therefore, we know that the slant angle from the sun to Yangcheng is half of the diameter of the celestial body.
From the perspective of the Pythagorean algorithm, the horizontal side stretching to the sky for fifteen thousand miles is a hook; the vertical side of eighty thousand miles is a stock; the sun slanting towards Yangcheng is a string.
Using the Pythagorean method, we get 81,394 li, 30 paces, 5 feet, 3 inches and 6 minutes, which is exactly half the diameter of the celestial body and the number of days from the celestial body on the ground.
If doubled, we get one hundred and sixty-two thousand seven hundred and eighty-eight miles, sixty-one steps, four feet, seven inches and two minutes, which is exactly the diameter of the celestial body.
Multiplied by the pi ratio and the diameter ratio are simplified and calculated, we get 513,687 miles, 68 steps, one foot, eight inches and two minutes, which is exactly the number of the celestial body's circumference.
It is more than 557,317 miles less than "Zhen Yaodu" and "Kao Yiyou".
At one time, it was 1,460 miles, 124 paces, 6 inches, 49,490/107,565, which is 1,525 miles, 256 paces, 3 feet, 3 inches, 215,130/16730 less than the old state.
It is divided into the ecliptic and the equator, and the two intersect with each other, with a distance of 24 degrees in between.
Calculating from the sky and the earth, both directions are 365 degrees Hu Yu, so we know that the celestial bodies are as round as projectiles.
Lu Ji made an armillary sphere, which was shaped like a bird's egg, so the ecliptic should be longer than the equator.
Lu Ji said that the diameters of celestial bodies from east to west, north and south are all 357,000 miles. So Lu Ji believed that the shape of celestial bodies is a perfect circle, but the armillary sphere is made into a bird's egg shape. This is a contradiction.
The old armillary sphere in ancient times was divided into two parts, and roughly one week was seven feet, three and a half minutes.
Zhang Heng changed the old system and divided it into four parts, and the circumference was one foot, four feet, six inches and one minute.
Wang Fan believed that the ancient style development stage was too small, the stars were too densely distributed, and Zhang Heng's instrument was too large to move, so he rebuilt the armillary sphere, dividing one degree into three points, and a celestial body circle is one foot, nine inches, five minutes and three quarters. "Hong Fan Zhuan" says: Clear and bright things are celestial bodies. The celestial body suddenly changes color, which is called changing the routine.
The celestial body is cracked and Yang Qi is insufficient. This is because I am too strong.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
天裂见人，兵起国亡。
天鸣有声，至尊忧且惊。
皆乱国之所生也。
马续云： 天文在图籍昭昭可知者，经星常宿中外官凡一百一十八名，积数七百八十三，皆有州国官宫物类之象。
张衡云： 文曜丽乎天，其动者有七，日月五星是也。
日者，阳精之宗；月者，阴精之宗；五星，五行之精。
众星列布，体生于地，精成于天，列居错峙，各有攸属。在野象物，在朝象官，在人象神。
其以神差，有五列焉，是为三十五名。
一居中央，谓之北斗。
四布于方各七，为二十八舍。
日月运行，历示吉凶，五纬躔次，用告祸福。
中外之官，常明者百有二十四，可名者三百二十，为星二千五百，微星之数盖万有一千五百二十。
庶物蠢蠢，咸得系命。
不然，何得总而理诸？
后武帝时，太史令陈卓总甘、石、巫咸三家所著星图，大凡二百八十三官，一千四百六十四星，以为定纪。
今略其昭昭者，以备天官云。
◎中宫北极五星，钩陈六星，皆在紫宫中。
北极，北辰最尊者也，其纽星，天之枢也。
天运无穷，三光迭耀，而极星不移，故曰 居其所而众星共之 。
第一星主月，太子也。
第二星主日，帝王也；亦太乙之坐，谓最赤明者也。
第三星主五星，庶子也。
中星不明，主不用事；右星不明，太子忧。
钩陈，后宫也，大帝之正妃也，大帝之常居也。
北四星曰女御宫，八十一御妻之象也。
钩陈口中一星曰天皇大帝，其神曰耀魄宝，主御群灵，执万神图。
抱北极四星曰四辅，所以辅佐北极而出度授政也。
大帝上九星曰华盖，所以覆蔽大帝之坐也。
盖下九星曰杠，盖之柄也。
translation: 
The celestial bodies split open and people appear, wars arise and countries perish.
The celestial bodies chirped and made sounds, and the emperor woke up worried.
These are all causes of chaos in domestic production.
Ma Xu said: Astronomy can be clearly understood in the atlas and classics. There are 118 Chinese and foreign officials in the twenty-eight constellations and other stars, and the total number is 783. They are all similar to the images of states, states, government offices, and palaces.
Zhang Heng said: The sun, moon and stars are attached to the sky, and there are seven moving ones among them: the sun, the moon and the five stars of gold, wood, water, fire and earth.
The sun is the origin of the yang essence; the moon is the origin of the yin essence; the five stars are the origin of the five elements of metal, wood, water, fire and earth.
The stars are arranged in a jumbled manner, each with its own place. If it corresponds to the common people, it should be based on physical phenomena; if it corresponds to the imperial court, it should imitate official images; if it corresponds to human feelings, it should imitate various things.
Among them, there are five columns, thirty-five in total, who are famous for their gods.
One in the center is called the Big Dipper.
Four are distributed in four directions, each with seven, forming twenty-eight houses.
The sun and the moon are constantly moving to show good and bad luck, and the positions of the five planets in their orbits are used to tell blessings.
Among the internal and external officials, there are 124 stars that are always bright, 320 stars that can be named, 2,500 stars that are counted, and the number of tiny stars is about 11,520.
The common things are numerous and messy, and all of them can be relied upon for life.
Otherwise, how can we achieve unified governance?
Later, during the reign of Emperor Wu, Taishi ordered Chen Zhuo to compile a star map composed by Gan De, Shi Shenfu and Wu Xian. It was believed that there were approximately 283 star officials and 1,464 stars.
Now write down those that are very clear and understandable to prepare for the celestial phenomena. translate
There were five stars in the North Pole last night and six stars in Gouchen last night, all of which are among the purple stars.
Polaris is the most noble of the North Pole constellations, and its fifth star, New Star, is the hub of the sky.
The motion of the celestial bodies is endless. The three lights of the sun, moon and stars shine one after another, and the North Star moves from behind. Therefore, it is said that it is in its position and the other stars surround it.
The first star represents the moon, like Prince Wei.
The second star represents the sun, like a micro-emperor; that is, the Taiyi star, which refers to the reddest and most beautiful one.
The third star represents the five stars, like the son of the common people.
If the middle star is not bright, it indicates that the emperor cannot be in power; if the right star is not bright, it is a worry for the prince.
Gouchenxing, like the harem, is the emperor's concubine and the emperor's permanent residence.
The four stars in the north are the female royal palaces, and the eighty-one royal wives are reflected in the image.
One of the stars in the Gouchen constellation is called the Emperor, and its god is called Yao Po Bao, who dominates all living things and controls the map of the gods.
The four stars surrounding the North Pole are called Sifu, and they are used to assist the North Pole in issuing laws.
The nine stars above the Emperor are called canopies, which are used to cover the throne of the Emperor of Heaven.
The nine stars under the canopy are called "bang" and are the handle of the canopy.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
华盖下五星曰五帝内坐，设叙顺帝所居也。
客星犯紫宫中坐，大臣犯主。
华盖杠旁六星曰六甲，可以分阴阳而配节候，故在帝旁，所以布政教而授农时也。
极东一星曰柱下史，主记过；左右史，此之象也。
柱史北一星曰女史，妇人之微者，主传漏，故汉有侍史。传舍九星在华盖上，近河，宾客之馆，主胡人入中国。客星守之，备奸使，亦曰胡兵起。传舍南河中五星曰造父，御官也，一曰司马，或曰伯乐。
星亡，马大贵。
其西河中九星如钩状，曰钩星，直则地动。
天一星在紫宫门右星南，天帝之神也，主战斗，知人吉凶者也。
太一星在天一南，相近，亦天帝神也，主使十六神，知风雨水旱、兵革饥谨、疾疫灾害所在之国也。
紫宫垣十五星，其西番七，东番八，在北斗北。
一曰紫微，大帝之坐也，天子之常居也，主命主度也。
一曰长垣，一曰天营，一曰旗星，为番卫，备番臣也。
宫阙兵起，旗星直，天子出，自将宫中兵。东垣下五星曰天柱，建政教，悬图法。门内东南维五星曰尚书，主纳言，夙夜谘谋；龙作纳言，此之象也。
西南角外二星曰内厨，主六宫之内饮食，主平刑断狱也。
门外六星曰天床，主寝舍，解息燕休。
西南角外二星曰内厨，主六宫之内饮食，主后妃夫人与太子宴饮。
东北维外六星曰天厨，主盛馔。
北斗七星在太微北，七政之枢机，阴阳之元本也。
故运乎天中，而临制四方，以建四时，而均五行也。
魁四星为旋玑，杓三星为玉衡。
又曰，斗为人君之象，号令之主也。
又为帝车，取乎运动之义也。
又魁第一星曰天枢，二曰璇，三曰玑，四曰权，五曰玉衡，六曰开阳，七曰摇光，一至四为魁，五至七为杓。
枢为天，璇为地，玑为人，权为时，玉衡为音，开阳为律，摇光为星。
石氏云： 第一曰正星，主阳德，天子之象也。
二曰法星，主阴刑，女主之位也。
三曰令星，主中祸。
四曰伐星，主天理，伐无道。
五曰杀星，主中央，助四旁，杀有罪。
六曰危星，主天仓五谷。
七曰部星，亦曰应星，主兵。
又云： 一主天，二主地，三主火，四主水，五主土，六主木，七主金。
又曰： 一主秦，二主楚，三主梁，四主吴，五主燕，六主赵，七主齐。
魁中四星为贵人之牢，曰天理也。
辅星傅乎开阳，所以佐斗成功，丞相之象也。
七政星明，其国昌；辅星明，则臣强。
杓南三星及魁第一星西三星皆曰三公，主宜德化，调七政，和阴阳之官也。
文昌六星，在北斗魁前，天之六府也，主集计天道。
一曰上将，大将军建威武。
二曰次将，尚书正左右。
三曰贵相，太常理文绪。
四曰司禄、司中，司隶赏功进。
五曰司命、司怪，太史主灭咎。
六曰司冠，大理佐理宝。
所谓一者，起北斗魁前近内阶者也。
明润，大小齐，天瑞臻。
文昌北六星曰内阶，天皇之阶也。
相一星在北斗南。
相者，总领百司而掌邦教，以佐帝王安邦国，集众事也。
其星明，吉。
translation: 
The five stars under the canopy are called the Five Emperors, and they are arranged in the order of the Five Emperors.
If a guest star violates the middle sign of a micro star, it means that the minister has violated the monarch.
The six stars next to the handle of the canopy are called Liujia, which can distinguish yin and yang and coordinate the seasonal climate. Therefore, the place next to the emperor's throne is used to announce political and religious matters and teach farming seasons.
The easternmost star is called Zhu Xia Shi, who is in charge of recording faults; Zuo Shi and You Shi, a lowly female official, are in charge of reporting the time, so there were attendant historians in the Han Dynasty.
The nine stars of Chuanshe are on the top of the canopy, close to the Tianhe River, like a building for entertaining guests, indicating that the barbarian people have entered the Central Plains. The guest star keeps watch to guard against treacherous envoys. This star is also called Hu Bingqi. The five stars in the Tianhe south of the Chuanshe are called Zaofu, an official serving the emperor, also called Sima, or Bole.
If this star disappears, the horse will be very precious.
The miscellaneous stars in the Milky Way to the west of it are like hooks, which are called hook stars. If they form a straight line, earthquakes will occur.
The Tianyi star is to the south of the right star of the Purple Palace Gate. It is the god of the Emperor of Heaven. He is in charge of wars and expeditions and can predict people's bad luck.
The Taiyi star is very close to the south of the Tianyi star. It is also the god of the Emperor of Heaven. It is responsible for commanding the sixteen gods and can predict which country will have wind, inch, flood, drought, war, famine, and plague disasters.
Ziweiyuan has fifteen stars, including seven in the west and eight in the east, north of the Big Dipper.
One is called Ziwei, which is the throne of the Emperor of Heaven. It is where the Emperor usually sits and is in charge of orders and regulations.
One is called Changyuan, one is called Tianying, and the other is called Qixing. They serve as barriers and guards to guard against Tibetan ministers.
If there are soldiers in the palace, the five stars under the east wall are called Tianzhu, which is responsible for establishing politics and religion, and publishing laws. The five stars in the southeast corner of the door are called Shangshu, which is responsible for cashiering the king's orders and consulting and planning day and night. The Dragon has set up the official Nayan, which is the symbol of this star.
The two stars to the west of Shangshu are Yin De and Yang De, which are responsible for providing relief to those in need and those who are in need. The two stars in the left star of the palace gate are called Dali, and they are in charge of judgments, lawsuits and prisons.
The six stars outside the door are called Tian Bed Stars, which are in charge of palaces and dormitories, where you can live and rest.
The two stars outside the southwest corner are called the internal kitchen stars, which are in charge of the food in the sixth house, and are in charge of the banquets of the concubines, ladies and princes.
The six stars outside the northeast corner are called Tianchu stars, which are in charge of grand banquets.
The Big Dipper is located to the north of Taiwei Yuan. It is the center of the sun, moon and stars, and the origin of yin and yang.
Therefore, it runs in the center of the celestial body and controls the four directions to establish the four seasons and balance the five elements.
The four stars in Kuibu are called Xuanji, and the three stars in Yubu are called Yuheng.
Another saying is that Dou is the symbol of the crowd and the master who issues orders.
It is also the emperor's chariot, which means sports.
The first star of the Big Dipper is called Tianshu, the second star is called Xuan, the third star is called Ji, the fourth star is called Quan, the fifth star is called Yuheng, the sixth star is called Kaiyang, and the seventh star is called Yaoguang; the first to fourth stars are the leader, and the fifth to seventh stars are the handle.
Extremely heaven, Xuan is the earth, Ji is the human being, Quan is the time, Yuheng is the sound, Kaiyang is the rhythm, and the shaking light is the star.
Shi said: The first star is called the Zhengxing, which governs Yang De and is the symbol of the Emperor.
The second one is called Dharma Star, which governs Yin punishment and is the position of the Queen.
The third one is called the Ling Star, which is in charge of disaster.
The fourth one is called the Fighting Star, which governs heavenly principles and fights against the unjust.
The fifth one is called the Killing Star, which is in charge of the center, with Sasuke on all sides, killing the guilty.
The sixth star is called Wei Xing, which is in charge of Tiancang's grain.
The seventh star is called the Bu Star, also called the Ying Star, and is in charge of military and revolutionary wars.
He also said: The first represents earth, the second represents earth, the third represents fire, the fourth represents water, the fifth represents earth, the sixth represents wood, and the seventh represents gold.
He also said: The first star represents Qin, the second star represents Chu, the third star represents Liang, the fourth star represents Wu, the fifth star represents Yan, the sixth star represents Zhao, and the seventh star represents Qi.
The four stars in Kuidou are the residences of noble people, which are called heavenly principles.
The auxiliary star is accompanied by the Kaiyang star and is used to assist the fighting star to succeed. It is a symbol of the prime minister.
If the Big Dipper is bright, the country will be prosperous; if the auxiliary star is bright, the ministers will be strong.
The three stars to the south of the ladle handle and the three stars to the west of the first star of Kuidou are both called San Gong. They are the officials in charge of promoting moral education, coordinating the seven political affairs, and balancing yin and yang.
The six stars of Wenchang, in front of the Big Dipper Star, are the six mansions of heaven, responsible for soliciting opinions and planning the way of heaven.
The first star is called General, which is the general who establishes his power and establishes his power.
The third one is called the second general, who is the official of Shangshu.
The third one is called Noble Prime Minister, and it is Taichang who governs culture, education, rituals and music.
The fourth one is called Si Lu and Sizhong. It is Si Li who rewards meritorious service.
The fifth one is called Si Ming and Si Gui, and it is the Taishi official responsible for eliminating evil.
The sixth star is called Sikou, which is Dali's assistant in managing treasures.
The so-called number one refers to the star that originates from the Beidou Kuixing and is close to Naijing.
Bright and moist, neat in size, the auspiciousness from heaven will be endless.
The six stars to the north of Wenchang star are called inner-level stars, which are the steps for the emperor and the emperor.
The phase star is in the south of the Beidou.
The so-called Prime Minister is to command all officials and be in charge of the political and religious affairs of the country, to assist the emperor in ensuring peace and stability of the country and managing everything.
If this star is bright, it is auspicious.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
太阳守一星，在相西，大将大臣之象也，主戒不虞，设武备。
西北四星曰势。
势，腐刑人也。
天牢六星，在北斗魁下，贵人之牢也。
太微，天子庭也，五帝之坐也，十二诸侯府也。
其外蕃，九卿也。
一曰太微为衡。
衡，主平也。
又为天庭，理法平辞，监升授德，列宿受符，诸神考节，舒情稽疑也。南蕃中二星间曰端门。
东曰左执法，廷尉之象也。
西曰右执法，御史大夫之象也。
执法，所以举刺凶奸者也。
左执法之东，左掖门也。
右执法之西，右掖门也。
东蕃四星，南第一星曰上相，其北，东太阳门；第二星曰次相，其北，中华东门也；第三星曰次将，其北，东太阴门也；第四星曰上将：所谓四辅也。
西蕃四星，南第一星曰上将，其北，西太阳门也；第二星曰次将，其北，中华西门也；第三星曰次相，其北，西太阴门也；第四曰上相：亦曰四辅也。
东西蕃有芒及动摇者，诸侯谋。
执法移，刑罚尤急。月、五星入太微，轨道，吉。
其所犯中坐，成刑。
其西南角外三星曰明堂，天子布政之宫。明堂西三星曰灵台，观台也，主观云物，察符瑞，候灾变也。
左执法东北一星曰谒者，主赞宾客也。谒者东北三星曰三公内坐，朝会之所居也。
三公北三星曰九卿内坐，治万事。
九卿西五星曰内五诸侯，内待天子，不之国也。
辟雍之礼得，则太微、诸侯明。
黄帝坐在太微中，含枢纽之神也。
天子动得天度，止得地意，从容中道，则太微五帝坐明以光。
黄帝坐不明，人主求贤士以辅法，不然则夺势。
四帝星夹黄帝坐，东方苍帝，灵威仰之神也；南方赤帝，赤熛怒之神也；西方白帝，白招矩之神也；北方黑帝，叶光纪之神也。
translation: 
The sun guards a star, which is to the west of the phase star. It is a symbol of generals and ministers. They are responsible for preventing extraordinary events and setting up armed guards.
The four stars in the northwest are called potential.
Shi is a person who has been castrated.
The six stars of Tianlao, under the Big Dipper Star, are the prisons of noble people.
Taiweiyuan is the palace of the emperor, the seat of the five emperors, and the official residence of the twelve princes.
Its outer screen is Jiuqing.
The first is called Taiweiweiheng.
Heng, in charge of balance.
It is also called the Heavenly Court, which straightens out the laws and suppresses rebellions, governs promotions, and appoints virtuous people. The stars love each other to signify destiny. The gods observe the laws, stretch their feelings, and solve problems. The space between the two stars in the south is called Duanmen.
The one in the east is called Zuo Zhiwei, which is the symbol of Tingwei.
The one in the west is called Right Law Enforcement, which is the symbol of the imperial censor.
Law enforcement means reporting and punishing evil and evil people.
To the east of Zuo Enforcement is Zuo Yemen.
To the west of the right law enforcement department is the right door.
There are four stars in the east, the first one in the south is called Shangxiang, and its north side is the East Sun Gate; the second star is called Cixiang, and its north side is the East Gate of China; the third star is called Cijiang, and its north side is the East Taiyin Gate; the fourth star is called General, and its north side is the West Sun Gate; the second star is called Cijiang, and its north side is the West Gate of China; the third star is called Cixiang, and its north side is the West Taiyin Gate; and the fourth star is called Shangxiang.
This is also known as Sifu.
If there are comets or moving stars in the east and west, it indicates that the princes are plotting against the emperor.
When the moon and five stars enter Tai Zhengyuan, if they follow the orbit, it will be auspicious.
If its residence invades the throne of the emperor, it will cause disaster.
The three stars outside the southwest corner are called Mingtang, which is the palace where the emperor issues decrees. The three stars to the west of Mingtang are called Lingtai, which is an observation platform. It is responsible for observing clouds and disasters, observing auspicious signs, and detecting changes in disasters.
The one star northeast of the left law enforcement officer is called Ye Zhen, who is in charge of welcoming guests. The three stars northeast of Ye Zhi are called San Gong Nei Si, which is the place for meetings and gatherings.
The three stars to the north of the Three Gongs are called Jiuqing, who are in charge of governing everything.
The five stars to the west of the Jiuqing star are called the five inner princes. They serve the emperor in the palace and do not go to their own country.
If the etiquette of education and customs is followed, the stars of Taiwei and the stars of princes will be bright.
The Yellow Emperor's Star is located in the middle of Taiwei Yuan and is the god who controls the hub.
If the emperor's actions can comply with the laws of heaven, his cessation can comply with the will of the earth, and every move must comply with morality, then the constellation of the Taiwei Five Emperors will shine brightly.
If the Yellow Emperor's constellation is not bright, the monarch should seek out talented people to assist in law enforcement, otherwise he will lose power.
The four emperor constellations surround the Yellow Emperor constellation. In the east is Cang Emperor, the god of spiritual power; in the south is Red Emperor, the god of red anger; in the west is Bai Emperor, the god of Bai Zhaoju; in the north is Black Emperor, the god of Ye Guangji.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
五帝坐北一星曰太子，帝储也。
太子北一星曰从官，侍臣也。
帝坐东北一星曰幸臣。屏四星在端门之内，近右执法。
屏，所以雍蔽学帝也。
执法主刺举；臣尊敬君上，则星光明润泽。
郎位十五星在帝坐东北。
一曰依乌郎府也。
周官之元士，汉官之光禄、中散、谏议、议郎、三署郎中，是其职也。
郎，主守卫也。
其星不具，后妃死，幸臣诛。
星明大及客星入之，大臣为乱。
郎将在郎位北，主阅具，所以为武备也。武贲一星，在太微西蕃北，下台南，静室旄头之骑官也。
常陈七星，如毕状，在帝坐北，天子宿卫武贲之士，以设强御也。
星摇动，天子自出，明则武兵用，微则兵弱。
三台六星，两两而居，起文昌，列抵太微。
一曰天住，三公之位也。
在人曰三公，在天曰三台，主开德宜符也。
西近文昌二星曰上台，为司命，主寿。
次二星曰中台，为司中，主宗室。
东二星曰下台，为司禄，主兵，所以昭德塞违也。
又曰三台为天阶，太一蹑以上下。
一曰泰阶。
上阶，上星为天子，下星为女主；中阶，上星为诸侯三公，下星为卿大夫；下阶，上星为士，下星为庶人：所以和阴阳而理万物也。
君臣和集，如其常度，有变则占其人。
南四星曰内平，近职执法平罪之官也。
中台之北一星曰太尊，贵戚也。
摄提六星，直斗杓之南，主建时节，伺禨祥。
摄提为楯，以夹拥帝座也，主九卿。
明大，三公恣。
客星入之，圣人受制。
translation: 
The star to the north of the Five Emperors constellation is called Prince Star, which is the crown prince of the emperor.
The star to the north of the Prince's Star is called Zuiguan, which is a minister who serves.
The star in the northeast of the constellation Xingchen is called Xingchen. It screens four stars within the end gate and is close to the right law officer.
The so-called screen was used to shield the emperor's court from the public.
If the Law Enforcement Star is in charge of prosecution, the recommendation will be meritorious; if the ministers respect the king, the star will be bright and moist.
The fifteen stars of Lang's position are in the northeast of the emperor's seat.
Also called Yiwulang Mansion.
Among the official positions of the Zhou Dynasty, Yuanshi, Guanglu, Zhongsan, Jianyi, Yilang, and Sanshulangzhong among the Han official positions are equivalent to this official position.
Lang is the officer responsible for guarding.
If this star is incomplete, it foretells the death of the concubine and the execution of the favored minister.
If this star is big and bright or a new star appears in this constellation, it indicates that the minister is in trouble.
The Lang Jiang star is to the north of the Lang position star, in charge of inspecting equipment, and its role is to manage military equipment. The Wu Ben star is to the north of the western part of the Taiwei star and to the south of the Xiatai star.
Changchen Qixing, shaped like a bird's net, is located to the north of the throne. It is the emperor's guard warrior and is used to set up strong defense.
As soon as this star shakes, the emperor will personally take action. If the star is bright, the military power will be strong, and if the star is dim, the military strength will be weak.
Three sets of six stars, two by two, start from Wenchang and are arranged all the way to Taiwei.
Also called Tianzhuxing, it is the position of the Three Lords.
In humans, they are called Sangong, and in heaven, they are called Santai. They are responsible for displaying and clarifying moral laws.
The two in the west near Wenchang are called Shangtai, which is Si Ming, responsible for life span.
The next two are called Zhongtai, which are Si Zhong and are in charge of the clan.
The two stars in the east mean to step down. They are Si Lu, in charge of soldiers and armor, and their function is to declare virtue and stop villains and treacherous ministers.
It is also said that the Santai Star is the ladder of the sky, and the Taiyi Star walks up and down on it.
Also called Taijie.
On the uppermost level, the upper star points to the emperor, and the lower star points to the emperor; on the middle level, the upper star points to the princes and three princes, and the lower star points to the ministers; and to the lowest level, the upper star points to the scholars, and the lower star points to the common people. Its function is to reconcile yin and yang and straighten out all things.
The ministers live in harmony, and they are as usual, and if there are changes, they will be revealed to them.
The four stars in the south are called Neiping, and they are officials whose duties are close to law enforcement and conviction.
The star on the north side of the central platform is called Tai Zun, which symbolizes the monarch's noble relatives.
The six stars are photographed and placed vertically to the south of the bucket. They are responsible for establishing seasonal solar terms and watching for good and bad omens.
Sheti is like a lever, surrounding the throne on the left and right, and collectively refers to the nine ministers.
If this star is bright and big, then the Three Lords will do whatever they want.
If a guest star invades it, the saint will be threatened.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
西三星曰周鼎，主流亡。
大角在摄提间。
大角者，天王座也。
又为天栋，正经纪也。
北三星曰帝席，主宴献酬酢。
北三星曰梗河，天矛也。
一曰天锋，主胡兵。
又为丧，故其变动应以兵丧也。
星亡，其国有兵谋。
其北一星曰招摇，一曰矛楯，其北一星曰玄戈，皆主胡兵，占与梗河略相类也。
招摇与北斗杓间曰天库。
星去其所，则有库开之祥也。
招摇欲与栋星、梗河、北斗相应，则胡兵当来受命于中国。
玄戈又主北夷，客星守之，胡大败。
天枪三星，在北斗杓东，一曰天钺，天之武备也。
故在紫宫之左，所以御难也。
女床三星，在纪星北，后宫御也，主女事。
天棓五星，在女床北，天子先驱也，主分争与刑罚，藏兵亦所以御难也。
枪、棓，皆以备非常也；一星不具，其国兵起。
东七星曰扶筐，盛桑之器，主劝蚕也。
七公七星，在招摇东，天之相也，三公之象也，主七政。
贯索九星在其前，贱人之牢也。
一曰连索，一曰连营，一曰天牢，主法律，禁暴强也。
牢口一星为门，欲其开也。
九星皆明，天下狱烦；七星见，小赦；六星、五星，大赦。
动则斧钅质用，中空则更元。
《汉志》云十五星。
天纪九星，在贯索东，九卿也，主万事之纪，理怨讼也。
明则天下多辞讼；亡则政理坏，国纪乱；散绝则地震山崩。
织女三星，在天纪东端，天女也，主果蓏丝帛珍宝也。
translation: 
The three stars in the west are called Zhou Ding, starring in exile.
Arcturus is among the stars.
The great horn is the throne of Uranus.
It is also the pillar of heaven, used to correct the laws and regulations.
The three stars in the north are called Emperor Xi, and they are in charge of banquets, food and wine.
The three stars in the north are called Ganghe and are the spears of the sky.
Also called Tianfeng, he was in charge of Hu Yi's troops.
It also foreshadows mourning, so its changes should always reflect military chaos and mourning.
When this star disappears, there will be mutiny in this country.
The star to the north of it is called Swaggering, also called Contradiction, and the star to the north of it is called Xuan Ge. These two stars are in charge of Hu Yi's military affairs, and what they foretell is roughly similar to the Ganghe star.
The truth between Swaggering Star and Big Dipper Star is called Tianku.
When the constellation leaves its position, there is an auspicious sign of opening the treasury.
If the Star of Swagger corresponds to the Star of Dong, Star of Ganghe, and Star of Big Dipper, then the barbarian people will come to obey the orders of China.
The Xuange star is also in charge of Beiyi. If the guest star guards it, the Hu people will be defeated.
The three stars of Tianqiang are located to the east of the Big Dipper. They are also called Tianyue, which represents the military equipment of heaven.
So there is a reason on the left side of Ziweixing, which is to resist the disaster of war.
There are three female bed stars, which are located to the north of the Ji star. They are for the harem and are in charge of women's affairs.
There are five stars in the sky, located in the north of the female bed star. They are the pioneers of the emperor. They are in charge of disputes, lawsuits and punishments. The weapons are also used to prevent unrest and disasters.
The Heavenly Spear and the Heavenly Plate are both used to prepare for extraordinary events; if one star is incomplete, the country will be in chaos.
The seven stars in the east are called baskets, which are tools for promoting mulberry industry and are responsible for encouraging silkworm rearing.
The seven stars of Qigong, located to the east of the Swaggering Star, are the auxiliary aspects of the celestial body, representing the three ministers in the human world and in charge of the seven political affairs.
There are nine stars in front of it, which is the prison of lowly people.
One is called Liansuo, one is called Bianying, and the other is called Tianlao. They are in charge of the law and prohibit rape.
The star at the top of the cell is the door, and I hope it's open.
If nine stars are all bright, there will be many lawsuits in the world; if seven stars appear, it means a small pardon; if six or five stars appear, there will be a general amnesty.
If this star moves, it indicates the use of instruments of torture, and the gap in the middle indicates the change of the year name.
"Han Zhi" says there are fifteen stars.
The Nine Stars of the Tianji Star are located to the east of the Guansuo Star, symbolizing the Jiuqing, who are in charge of all affairs and judge the grievances and lawsuits.
If this star is bright, there will be more lawsuits in the world; if this star disappears, political and religious governance will be corrupted, and national laws and regulations will be disordered; if this star is scattered and broken, earthquakes and landslides will occur.
There are three Vega stars, located at the east end of the Tian Ji Star. They are the goddesses in charge of fruits, vegetables, silk and treasures.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
王者至孝，神祗咸喜，则织女星俱明，天下和平。
大星怒角，布帛贵。
东足四星曰渐台，临水之台也，主晷漏律吕之事。
西足五星曰辇道，王者得嬉游之道也，汉辇道通南北宫，其象也。左右角间二星曰平道之官。平道西一星曰进贤，主卿相举逸才。
亢、东咸、西咸各四星，在房心北，日月五星之道也。
房之户，所以防淫佚也。
星明则吉；月、五星犯守之，有阴谋。
键闭一星，在房东北，近钩钤，主关籥。
天市垣二十二星，在房心东北，主权衡，主聚众。
一曰天旗庭，主斩戮之事也。
市中星众润泽，则岁实。
荧惑守之，戮不忠之臣。
彗星除之，为徙市易都。
客星入之，兵大起；出之，有贵丧。
帝坐一星，在天市中候星西，天庭也。
光而润则天子吉，威令行。
候一星，在帝坐东北，主伺阴阳也。
明大，辅臣强，四夷开；候细微，则国安；亡则主失位；移则不安。
宦者四星，在帝坐西南，侍主刑余之人也。
星微，吉；非其常，宦者有夏。
宗正二星，在帝坐东南，宗大夫也。
彗星守之，若失色，宗正有事；客星守之，更号令也。
宗人四星，在宗正东，主录亲疏享祀。
族人有序，则如绮文而明正。
动则天子亲属有变；客星守之，贵人死。
宗星二，在候星东，宗室之象，帝辅血脉之臣也。
客星守之，宗支不和。
天江四星，在尾北，主太阴。
translation: 
The king is very virtuous and filial, the gods are happy, the Vega star is bright, and the world is harmonious and peaceful.
If the horns of the largest and brightest star stick out, the cloth will be expensive.
The four stars on the east foot are called the gradual platform, which is a platform built on the water. It is in charge of the sundial, engraving, music and other matters.
In the Han Dynasty, the chariot road led to the northern and southern palaces, which was exactly what this constellation looked like. The two stars between the left and right horns are called the Officials of Pingdao. A star on the west side of Pingdao is called Jinxian, which means that the ministers recommend virtuous and talented people.
Kangsu. There are four stars in Dongxian and Xixian respectively. They are located in the north of Fangsuo and Heart, which are the paths of the sun, moon and five planets.
The door of the house is used to prevent abuse and pleasure.
If this star is bright, it is auspicious; if the moon and five stars touch or infringe on its range, conspiracy will occur.
The key star is in the north of the hostel, close to the hook star, and is in charge of the door lock.
The twenty-two stars in Tianshiyuan are in the northeast of Fangsu and Heart. They are in charge of power and laws and are responsible for recruiting everyone.
One is called Tianqiting, in charge of beheading matters.
If the stars in the sky are bright and shiny, the year will be fruitful.
If Mars enters this area, disloyal ministers will be killed.
The passage of a comet indicates that the city will be moved to Yidu.
If a guest star invades, a large-scale war will occur; if a guest star flies out, noble people will be mourned.
The Emperor Sitting Star, to the west of the Houxing in Tianshiyuan, is the palace of the Emperor of Heaven.
If it is bright and moist, the emperor will be auspicious and his orders will be carried out.
There is a waiting star, located northeast of the Emperor star, responsible for observing the changes of yin and yang.
If it is bright and large, the ministers who assist it will be strong, and the barbaric states on all sides will be divided. If the horoscope star is small and dim, the country will be stable; if the horoscope star disappears, the monarch will lose his throne; if the horoscope star moves too much, the monarch will be uneasy.
There are four eunuch stars, located in the southwest of the emperor star. They are people who have been castrated to serve the monarch.
If the star is dim, it indicates good luck; if the star loses its normal state, the eunuch will be in trouble.
The two Zongzheng stars, located in the southeast of the Emperor's constellation star, symbolize the officials who share the same clan as the monarch.
If a comet invades and stays, if it promotes normal color, Zong Zhengguan will be in trouble; if a guest star invades and stays, the order will be changed.
There are four Zongren stars, located to the east of the Zongzheng star. They are responsible for recording relatives and friends and enjoying sacrifices.
If people of the same clan have order in their elders and younger ones, then the star pattern will be beautiful, bright and straight.
If this star moves, something will happen to the emperor's relatives; if an alien planet invades and stays, it indicates the death of a noble person.
The two Zong stars, to the east of the Hou star, symbolize the clan, the ministers who assist the emperor and are related by blood to the emperor.
If the guest star enters and stays, the branches of the emperor's clan will be at odds.
The four stars of the Tianjiang River are located to the north of the Pleiades star and are in charge of water affairs.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
江星不具，天下津河关道不通。
明若动摇，大水出，大兵起；参差则马贵。
荧惑守之，有立主。
客星入之，河津绝。
天籥八星在南斗柄西，主关闭。
建星六星在南斗北，亦曰天旗，天之都关也。
为谋事，为天鼓，为天马。
南二星，天库也。
中央二星，市也，鈇钅质也。
上二星，旗跗也。
斗建之间，三光道也。
星动则众劳。
月晕之，蛟龙见，牛马疫。
月、五星犯之，大臣相谮有谋，亦为关梁不通，有大水。
东南四星曰狗国，主鲜卑、鸟丸、沃且。
荧惑守之，外夷为变。
狗国北二星曰天鸡，主候时。
天弁九星，在建星北，市官之长也，以知市珍也。
星欲明，吉。
彗星犯守之，籴贵，囚徒起兵。
河鼓三星，旗九星，在牵牛北，天鼓也，主军鼓，主鈇钺。
一曰三武，主天子三将军；中央大星为大将军，左星为左将军，右星为右将军。
左星，南星也，所以备关梁而距难也，设守阴险，知谋徽也。
旗即天鼓之旗，所以为旌表也。
左旗九星，在鼓左旁。
鼓欲正直而明，色黄光泽，将吉；不正，为兵忧也。
星怒，马贵。
动则兵起，曲则将失计夺势。
旗星差戾，乱相陵。
旗端四星南北列，曰天桴，鼓桴也。
星不明，漏刻失时。
前近河鼓，若桴鼓相直，皆为桴鼓用。
离珠五星，在须女北，须女之藏府，女子之星也。
天津九星，横河中，一曰天汉，一曰天江，主四渎津梁，所以度神通四方也。
translation: 
If the stars in Tianjiang are not complete, the main rivers and checkpoints in the world will not be smooth.
If it is bright or wavering, there will be floods and great wars; if it is uneven, the world will be noble.
Mars enters and stays to establish a new monarch.
If guest stars invade and stay, the rivers will never flow.
The eight Tianhui stars are located to the west of the handle of the South Dou, and are in charge of the opening and closing of the mouth.
The six Jianxing are located in the north of the South Dou, also called the Sky Flag, and are the main passes to heaven.
In charge of planning things, acting as a drum and a horse.
The two stars in the south are called Tianku.
The two stars in the center, called "Shi", are tools of execution such as axes and locks.
The two stars above are called flag tarsus.
Between the Dipper and the Jianxing is the path of the three lights of the sun, moon and stars.
When the constellations move, the masses will work hard.
If there is a halo around the moon, dragons will appear and plague will occur on cattle and horses.
If the moon and five stars invade, ministers will slander each other and plan conspiracies. It also means that water and land routes are blocked and there will be major floods.
The four stars in the southeast are called the Dog Kingdom and are in charge of Xianbei, Niaowan, and Woqie.
If Mars enters and stays, chaos will occur in the foreign countries.
The two stars to the north of the Dog Star are called the Rooster Stars, and they are in charge of the Hou Ling Hour.
There are nine Tianbian stars in the north of Jianxing. They are the leaders of the officials who manage the market. Their role is to understand the precious things in the market.
If this star is bright, it is auspicious.
The comet invades and stays, indicating that the goods are expensive and the prisoners are armed.
There are three Hegu stars and nine flag stars. To the north of Altair is Tiangu, which is in charge of military war drums, as well as axes and other weapons.
Also called Sanwu, it means the emperor's three generals; the big star in the center is the general, the star on the left is the left general, and the star on the right is the right general.
The star on the left is the star in the south. It is used to defend water and land routes and avoid disasters. It is used to set up defenders in dangerous places to predict the signs of plots.
The flag is the flag of Tiangu, which is used to mark the flag.
The left flag has nine stars, on the left side of the river drum.
If the Hegu star is upright, straight, bright, yellow, bright and moist in color, it will be auspicious; if it is not upright, it will indicate the worry of war.
The horns of this star are pierced, and the horse is expensive.
If the star moves, war will break out; if the star twists, planning will go wrong and power will be lost.
If the flag stars mutate abnormally, they will be in turmoil and invade each other.
There are four stars at one end of the flag star arranged in the north and south directions, called Tianzhu stars, which symbolize drumsticks.
If this star is not bright, the timing will be inaccurate.
Its front end is close to the River Drum Star. If the drumsticks and drum handles correspond to each other, they are both used to warn of emergencies.
There are five Lizhu stars, located to the north of Xu Nu's constellation. They are Xu Nu's treasury and the star of women.
There are nine Tianjin stars, spanning the Tianhe River. They are also called Tianhan and Tianjiang. They are in charge of the bridges and ferries of the four major rivers of the Yangtze River, Yellow River, Zhunhe and Jishui. They are used to cross the gods and lead to all directions.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
一星不备，津关道不通。
其四星曰天驷，旁一星曰王良，亦曰天马。其星动，为策马，车骑满野。
亦曰梁，为天桥，主御风雨水道，故或占车骑，或占津梁。
客星守之，桥不通道。
前一星曰策星，王良之御策也，主天子之仆，在王良旁。
若移在马后，是谓策马，则车骑满野。
阁道六星，在王良前，飞道也。
从紫宫至河，神所乘也，一曰，阁道星，天子游别宫之道也。
傅路一星，在阁道南，旁别道也。
东壁北十星曰天厩，主马之官，若今驿亭也，主传令置驿，逐漏驰骛，谓其行急疾，兴晷漏竞驰也。
天将军十二星，在娄北，主武兵。
中央大星，天之大将也。
南一星曰军南门，主谁何出入。
太陵八星在胃北，亦曰积京，主大丧也。积京中星众，则诸侯有丧，民多疾，兵起。
太陵中一星曰积尸，明则死人如山。
北九星曰天船，一曰舟星，所以济不通也。
中一星曰积水，候水灾。
昴西二星曰天街，三光之道，主伺候关梁中外之境。
卷舌六星，在昴北，主口语，以知侫谗也。
曲，吉；直而动，天下有口舌之害。
中一星曰天谗，主巫医。
五车五星，三柱九星，在毕北。
五车者，五帝车舍也，五帝坐也，主天子五兵，一曰主五谷丰耗。
西北大星曰天库，主太白，主秦。
次东星曰天仓，主岁星，主鲁卫。
translation: 
One star is incomplete, which indicates that the key points of land and water are not smooth.
The twenty-two stars of Soaring Snake are located to the north of the camp star. They are the heavenly snakes and are in charge of aquatic animals. There are five Wang Liang stars, located north of Kuisu and located in the Tianhe River. They are the imperial officials who drive for the emperor. When four of the stars move, it means that horses are being driven, and the fields are filled with chariots and horses.
Also called a beam, it is an overpass, responsible for resisting wind and rain, so some say it can predict vehicles and horses, and some say it can predict bridge crossings.
If a guest star moves in, the bridge will be closed to traffic.
The star in front of it is called the Ce Star, which is the spur used by Wang Liang to control his horse. It represents the servants of the emperor and is next to the Wuliang Star.
If this star moves behind the horse star, it means driving the horses, and the horses and vehicles will be everywhere.
There are six Pavilion Dao stars, before the Wang Liang star, which is the path of flight.
From Ziweiyuan to Tianhe, it is the vehicle of the gods. When it comes to the pavilion star, it is the way for the emperor to travel to other palaces.
There is a road star, south of the pavilion star, which is another road next to it.
The ten stars on the north side of Dongbi Su are called Tianshang. The officials who manage horses are like today's inns. They are in charge of transmitting orders and setting up inns. They rush to and fro at any time. This means that it runs quickly and quickly, like racing against the clocks of a sundial.
There are twelve general stars in the sky, located in the north of Lousu, in charge of military chariots.
The big star in the center is the general of heaven.
The one in the south is called Junnan Gate, which is responsible for interrogating people who come in and out.
There are eight Tailing stars in the north of the Wei constellation, also called Jijing stars, which foretell the funeral of the emperor. There are many stars in the Jijing constellation, which means that there will be funerals among the princes, many diseases among the people, and the rise of war.
One of the Tai Ling stars is called Ji Zhi. If it is bright, it indicates that there are many dead people piling up like a mountain.
The nine stars in the north are called sky ships, also called Zhou stars, which are used to facilitate navigation.
The star in the middle is called Sekisui and is responsible for detecting floods.
The two stars to the west of Pleiades are called Heavenly Street, which is the path of the three lights of the sun, moon and stars, and is responsible for watching over the inside and outside of the water and land routes.
There are six Tongue Stars, located in the north of the Pleiades. They are in charge of speech and discussion, and their function is to detect the evil of treacherous people.
If it is curved, it is auspicious; if it is straight and active, there will be disasters in the world.
The star in the middle is called Tianzhu Star, which is in charge of wizards and healers.
There are five chariot stars and nine three pillar stars, all of which are located in the north of Album.
The five chariots are the chariot houses of the Five Emperors, where the Five Emperors ride, and are in charge of the five weapons of the emperor. One is said to be in charge of the harvest and reduction of grain production.
The big star in the northwest is called Tianku, which corresponds to the planet Venus in charge of Qin.
The next star in the northeast is called the Prison Star, facing Mercury, and in charge of the land of Yan and Zhao.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
次东南星曰司空，主填星，主楚。
次西南星曰卿星，主荧惑，主魏。
五星有变，皆以其所主占之。
三柱一曰三泉。
天子得灵台之礼，则五车、三柱均明有常。
其中五星曰天潢。
天潢南三星曰咸池，鱼囿也。
月、五星入天潢，兵起，道不通，天下乱。
五车南六星曰诸王，察诸侯存亡。
其西八星曰八谷，主候岁。
八谷一星亡，一谷不登。
天关一星，在五车南，亦曰天门，日月之所行也，主边事，主关闭。
芒角，有兵。
五星守之，贵人多死。
东井钺前四星曰司怪，主候天地日月星辰变异及鸟兽草木之妖，明主闻灾，修德保福也。
司怪西北九星曰坐旗，君臣设位之表也。
坐旗西四星曰天高，台谢之高，主远望气象。
天高西一星曰天河，主察山林妖变。
南河曰南戍，一曰南宫，一曰阳门，一曰越门，一曰权星，主火。
北河曰北戍，一曰北宫，一曰阴门，一曰胡门，一曰衡星，主水。
两河戍间，日月五星之常道也。
河戍动摇，中国兵起。
南河南三星曰阙丘，主宫门外象魏也。
五诸侯五星，在东井北，主刺举，戒不虞。
又曰理阴阳，察得失。
亦曰主帝心。
一曰帝师，二曰帝友，三曰三公，四曰博士，五曰太史，此五者常为帝定疑议。
星明大润泽，则天下大治；芒角，则祸在中。
五诸侯南三星曰天尊，主盛饘粥以给贪馁。
积水一星，在北河西北，水河也，所以供酒食之正也。
积薪一星在积水束北，供庖厨之正也。
水位四星，在积薪柬，主水衡。
客星若水火守犯之，百川流溢。
轩辕十七星，在七星北。
轩辕，黄帝之神，黄龙之体也；后妃之主，土职也。
一曰东陵，一曰权星，主雷雨之神。
translation: 
The next star in the southeast is called Sikong, which corresponds to Saturn and is in charge of the land of Chu.
The next star in the southwest is called Qingxing, which corresponds to Mars and is in charge of Wei.
If there are changes in these five stars, use their corresponding ones for divination.
The three-pillar star is also called the three Zhu.
If the emperor masters the ritual of observing the sky from the spiritual platform, then the five-wheel star and the three-pillar star will be bright and regular.
The five stars in the middle are called Tianhuang stars.
The three stars to the south of Tianhuang Star are called Xianchi Stars, which are fish ponds.
When the moon and five stars enter Tianhuang Star, war breaks out, politics and religion are blocked, and the world is in chaos.
The six stars to the south of the five chariots are called the kings, which monitor the survival of the princes.
The eight stars to the west of it are called Bugu, which are responsible for observing the year.
If one star disappears from the eight grain stars, it means that one grain will not be harvested.
There is a Tianguan star, due south of the Five Cars Star, also called Tianmen. It is the path of the sun and the moon. It is in charge of border affairs and is responsible for blocking border passes.
When this star shines, there will be chaos.
If the five stars enter and stay, many noble people will die.
The four stars in front of the Yue star in Dongjing are called Siguai. They are responsible for observing changes in the sky, earth, sun, moon, stars, and abnormal conditions of birds, beasts, and vegetation. When the wise master hears that there is a disaster, he must cultivate his virtue and protect his fortune.
The nine stars in the northwest of Siguai are called sitting flags, which are symbols of the status of the monarch and his ministers.
The four stars to the west of the flag star are called Tiangao stars, which symbolize the height of the pavilion and are responsible for observing clouds and weather phenomena from a distance.
A star high in the sky in the west is called Tianhe Star, which is responsible for detecting abnormal mutations in mountains and forests.
There are three stars each, Procyon and Pollux, sandwiching Dongjing. When it comes to the sky-high star, it is the closed door of the celestial body and is in charge of the water and land transportation routes. Nanhe star is called Nanshu, also known as Nangong, Yangmen, Yuemen and Quanxing. It is in charge of fire.
Beihe star is called Beishu, also known as Beigong, Yinmen, Humen and Hengxing. It governs water.
Between the north and south garrison of the two river stars is the normal orbit of the sun, moon and five stars.
If the river garrison wavers, war will break out in the Central Plains.
The three stars to the south of Nanhe Star are called Queqiu Stars, and they are in charge of Guanque, the county's teaching order outside the palace gate.
There are five Five Princes stars, located in the north of Dongjing Su, responsible for reporting and recommending, and warning of extraordinary events.
One theory is to regulate yin and yang and examine gains and losses.
It is also said that he controls the heart of Emperor Wu.
The first is called the emperor's teacher, the second is called the emperor's friend, the third is called Sangong, the fourth is called doctor, and the fifth is called Taishi. These five kinds of people often solve difficult problems for the emperor.
If this star is bright and huge, then the world will be safe; if there are horns piercing out, there will be disaster.
The three stars to the south of the five stars are called Tianzun stars; they are responsible for serving thick porridge to the poor and hungry.
A star of accumulated water, in the northwest of Pollux, is the Water River, which is used to supply wine and food to the officials.
The star of Ji Xin is located in the northeast of Ji Shui, and is the chief who supplies the kitchen.
There are four water-level stars, and they are to the east of the salary-accumulation star. They are the officials in charge of water conservancy.
If the guest star tribes of water and fire invade and stay, hundreds of rivers will flood.
There are seventeen Xuanyuan stars, located to the north of the Seven Stars.
Xuanyuan is the spirit of the Yellow Emperor and the essence of the Yellow Dragon; it is the elder of the concubine and the official position.
One is called Dongling and the other is called Quanxing. They are the gods in charge of thunder and rain.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
南大星，女主也。
次北一星，夫人也，屏也，上将也。
次北一星，妃也，次将也。
其次诸星，皆次妃之属也。
女主南小星，女御也。
左一星少民，后宗也。
右一星大民，太后宗也。
欲其色黄小而明也。
轩辕右角南三星曰酒旗，酒官之旗也，主宴飨饮食。
五星守酒旗，天下大酺，有酒肉财物，赐若爵宗室。
酒旗南三星曰天相，丞相之象也。
轩辕西四星曰爟，爟者，烽火之爟也，边亭之警候。
爟北四星曰内平，平罪之官，明刑罚。
少微四星在太微西，士大夫之位也。
一名处士，亦天子副主，或曰博士官，一曰主卫掖门。
南第一星处士，第二星议士，第三星博士，第四星大夫。
明大而黄，则贤士举也。
月、五星犯守之，处士、女主忧，宰相易。
南四星曰长垣，主界域及胡夷。
荧惑入之，胡入中国；太白入之，九卿谋。
◎二十八舍东方。
角二星为天关，其间天门也，其内天庭也。
故黄道经其中，七曜之所行也。
左角为天田，为理，主刑；其南为太阳道。
右角为将，主兵；其北为太阴道。
盖天之三门，犹房之四表。
其星明大，王道太平，贤者在朝；动摇移徙，王者行。
亢四星，天子之内朝也，总摄天下奏事，听讼理狱录功者也。
一曰疏庙，主疾疫。
星明大，辅纳忠，天下宁。
氐四星，王者之宿宫，后妃之府，休解之房。
前二星，適也，后二星，妾也。
后二星大，则臣奉度。
translation: 
The big star in the south is the Queen of the Emperor.
Secondly, the star in the north is the lady, which represents the screen and also symbolizes the general.
The star further to the north is the concubine and also symbolizes the secondary general.
The next stars all belong to the secondary concubine column.
The small star to the south behind the emperor is the female royal in the palace.
The star on the left is Shao Min, the royal family of the emperor and empress.
The star on the right is called Damin, which is the royal family of the Queen Mother.
Hopefully it will be tiny and bright in yellow.
The three stars in the south of the right corner of the Xuanyuan constellation are called wine flags. They are the flags of the wine official, who are in charge of banquets.
If the five stars enter and stay in the wine flag star, there will be a lot of food and drink in the world. If the five stars enter and stay in the wine flag star, the world will feast and have a lot of wine, meat and property, and the clan will be given rewards or titles.
The three stars to the south of the wine flag star are called Tianxiang and are symbols of the prime minister.
The four stars to the west of Xuanyuan Star are called Yao, and Yao is the beacon fire that calls the police, and is the outpost of the border posthouse.
The four stars in the north of the translation star are called Neiping, which are the officials of balancing responsibility and clarifying punishment.
The four stars of Shaowei are to the west of Taiwei Yuan, which is the position of scholar-bureaucrats.
Also called a virgin, he is also the crown prince of the emperor. Or doctor, one said he was responsible for guarding the side gate of the palace.
The first star in the south is a virgin, the second star is a righteous man, the third star is a doctor, and the fourth star is a doctor.
If this star is bright, large and yellow, then the wise men can recommend it.
If the moon and five stars invade and stay there, there will be disaster for the virgin and the heroine, and the prime minister will also have to be replaced.
The four stars in the south are called Changyuan, which govern the border areas and neighboring countries on all sides.
If Mars enters, the neighboring countries will invade the Central Plains; if Taibai enters, the Nine Qings will conspire.
East.
The two stars Spica are the gateway to heaven, in the middle is the gate of heaven, and within it is the court of heaven.
Therefore, the ecliptic of the sun's movement passes through it, which is the orbit of the sun, moon, and five stars.
The star in the left corner is Tiantian, the official in charge of litigation and prison, responsible for punishment; its South Africa is the way of the sun.
The star on the right corner is the general, in charge of military affairs; to the north is the path of the lunar calendar.
Generally speaking, the three gates of heaven are like the four tables of the house stars.
If this star is bright and huge, the king's kingdom will be peaceful and capable people will be in the court; if this star wavers and moves away, the king will travel.
The four stars of Kangsu represent the emperor's inner dynasty, which is the person who manages the affairs of the world, hears lawsuits, manages cases and prisons, and records merits.
One theory is that it is called Shumiao, which is responsible for diseases and plagues.
This star is bright and huge. It indicates that the ministers will give you loyal advice and the world will be peaceful and safe.
The four Disu are the king's bedroom, the concubine's residence, and a resting house.
The two stars in the front represent the direct wife; the two stars in the back represent the concubine.
If the two stars behind are huge, then the ministers will obey the law.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
房四星，为明堂，天子布政之宫也，亦四辅也。
下第一星，上将也；次，次将也；次，次相也；上星，上相也。南二星君位，北二星夫人位。又为四表，中间为天衢，为天关，黄道之所经也。
南间曰阳环，其南曰太阳；北间曰阴间，其北曰太阴。
七曜由乎天衢，则天下平和；由阳道则旱丧；由阴道则水兵。
亦曰天驷，为天马，主车驾。
南星曰左骖，次左服，次右服；次右骖。
亦曰天厩，又主开闭，为畜藏之所由也。
房星明，则王者明；骖星大，则兵起；星离，民流。
又北二小星曰钩钤，房之钤键，天之管籥，主闭键天心也。
明而近房，天下同心。钩钤间有星及疏坼，则地动河清。
心三星，天王正位也。
中星曰明堂，天子位，为大辰，主天下之赏罚。
天下变动，心星见祥。
星明大，天下同。
前星为太子，后星为庶子。
心星直，则王失势。
尾九星，后宫之场，妃后之府。
上第一星，后也；次三星，夫人；次星，嫔妾。
第三星傍一星名曰神宫，解衣之内室。
尾亦为九子，星色欲均明，大小相承，则后宫有叙，多子孙。
箕四星，亦后宫妃后之府。
亦曰天津，一曰天鸡，主八风。
凡日月宿在箕、东壁、翼、轸者风起。又主口舌，主客蛮夷胡貉；故蛮胡将动，先表箕焉。北方。
南斗六星，天庙也，丞相太宰之位，主褒贤进士，禀授爵禄。
又主兵，一曰天机。
南二星魁，天梁也。
中央二星，天相也。
北二星，天府庭也，亦为寿命之期也。
将有天子之事，占于斗。
translation: 
The four houses are called the Mingtang, which is the palace where the emperor issues decrees and is also the fourth assistant.
The first star below is the general; the next one is the general; the third one is the secondary phase; the one above is the prime minister, the two stars in the south are the position of the monarch, the two stars in the north are the position of the lady, and they are also the four tables. The main road of the celestial body in the middle is the gateway of the sky and is the path through which the sun orbits.
The southern space is called the Yang Ring, and its south side is called the Sun; the northern space is called the underworld, and its north side is called the Taiyin.
If the sun, moon and five stars pass through the thoroughfare of heaven, then there will be peace in the world; if they pass through the yang path, there will be droughts and funerals; if they pass through the vagina, there will be floods and wars.
Also called Tiansi, it is a Tianma, responsible for driving the emperor's chariot.
The star in the south is called Zuo Xi, followed by Zuo Fu, then Right Fu, and then Right Xi.
Also called the Heavenly Stable, it is also responsible for opening and closing, and is the place where livestock are stored.
If the house is bright, the king will be wise; if the star is large, then war will occur; if the star is scattered, the people will be in exile.
The two small stars in the north are called Gouqin. They are the key and lock of the house star and the key and lock of the celestial body. They are responsible for opening and closing the heart of heaven.
It is bright and close to Fangsu, and the world is of one heart and one mind. If there are guest stars or distant stars between Fangsu and Gouzhao, earthquakes will occur and the water of the Yellow River will become clear.
The three stars in the heart are the correct position of the King of Heaven.
The star in the middle is Mingtang, which is the seat of the emperor, and is Dachen, who is in charge of rewards and punishments in the world.
If there is a change in the world, the heart star will show signs.
This star is bright and huge, and the world is unified.
The first star is the prince, and the second star is the concubine.
If the heart star is vertical, the king will lose his power.
Ojuku Kuko is the location of the imperial palace and the residence of the concubines.
The first star above is the queen; the second star is the wife; the third star is the concubine.
The star next to the third star is called the Divine Palace, which is the inner room where the clothes are removed.
Ojuku is also called Jiuzi. If the color of this star is bright and uniform, and the sizes are consistent with each other, then the palace will grow in an orderly manner and there will be many descendants.
The four stars of Jisu are also the residences of the harem and concubines.
It is also called Tianjin, and some say it is called Tianji, which controls the winds in all directions.
He is also in charge of verbal communication and reception of people from foreign countries. Therefore, when people from foreign countries and neighboring countries are about to take action, they are first displayed on the Ji star. north.
The six stars in the Dipper represent the Heavenly Temple, which is the position of the Prime Minister Dazai. He is in charge of commending and recommending talented people, and conferring titles and salaries.
He is also in charge of military affairs, and is called Tianji.
The two stars in the south are called Kui and are the beams of heaven.
The two stars in the center are celestial signs.
The C star in the north is the Court of Heaven, and it also indicates the duration of life.
When something about the emperor is about to happen, use the Dou Su to divination.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
斗星盛明，王道平和，爵禄行。
牵牛六星，天之关梁，主牺牲事。
其北二星，一曰即路，一曰聚火。
又曰，上一星主道路，次二星主关梁，次三星主南越。
摇动变色则占之。
星明大，王道昌，关梁通。
须女四星，天少府也。
须，贱妾之称，妇职之卑者也，主布帛裁制嫁娶。
虚二星，冢宰之官也，主北方邑居庙堂祭祀祝祷事，又主死丧哭泣。
危三星，主天府天市架屋；余同虚占。
坟墓四星，属危之下，主死丧哭泣，为坟墓也。
营室二星，天子之宫也。
一曰玄宫，一曰清庙，又为军粮之府及土功事。
星明，国昌；小不明，祠祀鬼神不享。
离宫六星，天子之别宫，主隐藏休息之所。
东壁二星，主文章，天下图书之秘府也。
星明，王者兴，道术行，国多君子；星失色，大小不同，王者好武，经士不用，图书隐；星动，则有土功。
西方。
奎十六星，天之武库也。
一曰天豕，亦曰封豕。
主以兵禁暴，又主沟渎。
西南大星，所谓天豕目，亦曰大将，欲其明。
娄三星，为天狱，主苑牧牺牲，供给郊祀。胃三星，天之厨藏，主食廪，五谷府也，明则和平。
昴七星，天之耳目也，主西方，主狱事。
又为旄头，胡星也。
昴、毕间为天街，天子出，旄头罕毕以前驱，此其义也。
黄道之所经也。
昴明，则天下牢狱平。
昴六星皆明，与大星等，大水。
七星皆黄，兵大起。
一星亡，为兵丧；摇动，有大臣下狱，及有白衣之会。
translation: 
If the Dou Su is plump and bright, the royal road will be peaceful, with titles and salaries.
The six stars of Ox are the main water and land transportation channels for the celestial bodies, and are responsible for the sacrifices and offerings of sacrifices.
The two stars to the north of it are called Jilu and Juhuo.
It is also said that the upper star controls roads, the next two stars control land and water transportation routes, and the next three stars are responsible for South Vietnam.
If this star shakes and changes color, it will be a divination.
The stars are bright and huge, the royal road is prosperous, and the land and water transportation is smooth.
The four stars of Xu Nu are the young officials of heaven.
Xu is the name of a concubine. She is a lowly female person in charge of cloth tailoring and marriage.
The two stars in the virtual constellation are the chief officials of tombs. They are in charge of the residences, temples, sacrifices and prayers in the northern towns, and they are also in charge of mourning and mourning.
The three stars in the Wei constellation are in charge of the building construction of Tianfu and Tianshi; the rest are the same as the predictions of the Xu constellation.
The four stars of the Grave Star are under the Danger Star. They are responsible for crying during death and funeral, as a sign of the grave.
There are two rooms and houses, which are the palaces of the emperor.
One is called Xuan Palace and the other is Qing Temple. They also manage the treasury of military supplies and water control and city building.
If the star is bright, the country will be prosperous; if the star is small and not bright, the ghosts and gods will not enjoy it during sacrifices.
There are six Li Gong stars, which are the emperor's special officials and are in charge of the hiding place and resting place.
There are two stars on the wall, which are in charge of articles. They are the secret house for collecting books in the world.
If this star is bright, the king will be prosperous, academics will be prosperous, and there will be many gentlemen in the country. If this star loses its light and color, and the size is different, the monarch will be warlike, scholars of classics will not be reused, and books will not be visible. If this star moves, there will be water and soil construction.
The west.
The sixteen stars in Kuisu are the open warehouses of heaven.
One said it was called Tianshu, and another said it was called Fengshu.
He is in charge of using force to prevent atrocities, and he is also in charge of rivers and ditches.
The big star in the southwest is the so-called eye of the zodiac pig, also called the general. I hope it is bright.
The three stars of Lousu are heavenly prisons, in charge of the gardens, pastures and livestock used for sacrifices, and the three stars of Weisu are the kitchen and granary of heaven. They are in charge of warehouses and the forum where grains are stored. If this star is bright, the world will be peaceful.
The seven stars of the Pleiades are the eyes and ears of heaven, in charge of the west, and in charge of litigation and prison matters.
It is also the Yangtou, which is the star symbolizing the Hu people.
Between Pleiades and Bisu is Tianjie. When the emperor travels, the Yangtou should go in front as the emperor's guard of honor. This is its meaning.
It is the place that the ecliptic passes through.
If the Pleiades are bright, then the world's prisons and lawsuits will be fair.
The Aldea stars are very bright, and if they are the same as the big star, there will be floods.
If all seven stars are yellow, large-scale wars will occur.
If a star disappears, there will be wars and chaos; if it falters, ministers will be imprisoned and emperors will be mourned.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
大而数尽动若跳跃者，胡兵大起。
毕八星，主边兵，主弋猎。
其大星曰天高，一曰边将，主四夷之尉也。
星明大，则远夷来贡，天下安；失色，则边兵乱。
附耳一星，在毕下，主听得失，伺愆邪，察不祥。
星盛，则中国微，有盗贼，边候惊，外国反；移动，佞谗行。
月入毕，多雨。
觜觿三星，为三军之候，行军之藏府，主葆旅，收敛万物。
又主权衡。
所以平理也。又主边城，为九译，故不欲其动也。
参，白兽之体。
其中三星横列，三将也。
东北曰左肩，主左将；西北曰右肩，主右将；东南曰左足，主后将军；西南曰右足，主偏将军。
故《黄帝占》参应七将。
中央三小星曰伐，天之都尉也，主胡、鲜卑、戎、狄之国，故不欲明。
七将皆明大，天下兵精也。
王道缺则芒角张。
伐星明与参等，大臣皆谋，兵起。
参星失色，军散败。
参芒角动摇，边候有急，兵起，有斩伐之事。
参星移，客伐主。
参左足入玉井中，兵大起，秦大水，若有丧，山石为怪。
参星差戾，王臣贰。
南方。东井八星，天之南门，黄道所经，天之亭候，主水衡事，法令所取平也。
王者用法平，则井星明而端列。
钺一星，附井之前，主伺淫奢而斩之。
故不欲其明，明与井齐，则用钺于大臣。月宿井，有风雨。
舆鬼五星，天目也，主视，明察奸谋。
东北星主积马，东南星主积兵，西南星主积布帛，西北星主积金玉，随变占之。
translation: 
If this constellation is huge and all of them are active and enthusiastic, Hu soldiers will attack in large numbers.
The eight stars of Aldebara are in charge of the border troops and hunting.
Among them, the star in the sky is called Tiangao, and one is called Bianjiang, the lieutenant in charge of the Yi and Di in all directions.
If this star is bright and huge, barbaric states from far away will come to pay tribute, and the world will be stable; if this star loses its luster, war will break out on the border.
The ear star, under Bisu, is responsible for listening to gains and losses, detecting mistakes and evil, and observing ominous things.
If this star is strong, the central plains will be weak, and there will be thieves, border turmoil, and foreign rebellions; if this star moves, slander and sycophancy will become popular.
When the moon enters Biju, it will rain heavily.
The three stars in the constellation are the military commanders of the three armies and the treasury of food and grass during the march. They are responsible for protecting the army and controlling all things.
If this star is bright, military reserves will be sufficient and the general will gain power.
The ten stars of Rigel, one is called Shenfa, another is called Dachen, another is called Tianshi, and the other is called Zhuocheng, and they are in charge of wars and expeditions. It is also in charge of laws and standards for making judgments. He is also in charge of border cities and is the Nine Translators, so he does not want it to move.
Rigel, the body of the white tiger.
One of them has three stars in a row, representing three generals.
The one in the northeast is called left shoulder, which means a left general; the one in the northwest is called right shoulder, which means a right general; the one in the southeast is called right foot, which means a rear general; the one in the southwest is called right foot, which means a partial general.
So in "Huang Di Zhan" Rigel deals with seven generals.
The three small stars in the center are called Fa, which are the captains of heaven, in charge of Hu, Xianbei, Rong, Di and other countries, so I don't want them to be bright.
The seven generals are all bright and big, and the armor of the world is sharp and powerful.
If the royal path is lacking, the star's light will spread out.
When the brightness of the star is equal to that of Rigel, all ministers will participate in the strategy and war will occur.
Rigel lost his luster, and the army was scattered and routed.
If the light of Rigel wavers, the borders will be in danger, war will break out, and there will be killings and conquests.
When the stars move, the guest will attack the host.
If the left foot star of Rigel enters the Yujing star, there will be great wars, floods will occur in the Qin Dynasty, it will be like a funeral, and the mountains and rocks will cause monsters.
If the ginseng star mutates abnormally, then the king and his ministers have two minds.
The eight stars in Dongjingsu are the south gate of the celestial body, which the ecliptic passes through, and are the earthen fortresses of heaven. They are in charge of the affairs of water and scale officials, and laws and regulations are used to obtain fair judgments.
If the monarch uses laws fairly and reasonably, then the well will be bright and well arranged.
A Yue star, attached in front of Jingsu, is responsible for detecting excessive luxury and cutting off it.
So you don't want it to be bright. If it is in the Jing star with the Jing star, it means there will be wind and rain.
The five stars in the ghost constellation are the eyes of the sky, responsible for vision and detecting treachery.
The Northeast Star is in charge of accumulating horses, the Southeast Star is in charge of accumulating weapons, the Southwest Star is in charge of accumulating cloth and silk, and the Northwest Star is in charge of accumulating gold and jade. Each one has its own predictions along with the changes.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
中央星为积尸，主死丧祠祀。
一曰鈇锧，主诛斩。
鬼星明，大谷成；不明，百姓散。
锧欲其忽忽不明，明则兵起，大臣诛。
柳八星，天之厨宰也，主尚食，和滋味，又主雷雨。
七星七星，一名天都，主衣裳文绣，又主急兵盗贼。
故星明王道昌；暗则贤良不处，天下空。
张六星，主珍宝、宗庙所用及衣服，又主天厨饮食赏赍之事。
星明则王者行五礼，得天之中。
翼二十二星，天之乐府俳倡，又主夷狄远客、负海之宾。
星明大，礼乐兴，四夷宝。
动则蛮夷使来，离徙则天子举兵。
轸四星，主冥宰，辅臣也；主车骑，主载任。
有军出入，皆占于轸。
又主风，主死丧。
轸星明，则车驾备；动则车驾用。
天汉起东方，经尾箕之间，谓之汉津。
乃分为二道，其南经傅说、鱼、天籥、天弁、河鼓，其北经龟，贯箕下，次络南斗魁、左旗，至天津下而合南道。
乃西南行，又分夹匏瓜，络人星、杵、造父、腾蛇、王良、傅路、阁道北端、太陵、天船、卷舌而南行，络五车，经北河之南，入东井水位而东南行，络南河、阙丘、天狗、天纪、天稷，在七星南而没。
○十二次度数
十二次。班固取《三统历》十二次配十二野，其言最详。
又有费直说《周易》、蔡邕《月令章句》，所言颇有先后。
魏太史令陈卓更言郡国所入宿度，今附而次之。
自轸十二度至氐四度为寿星，于辰在辰，郑之分野，属兗州。
translation: 
The star in the center is called Jishi, which is responsible for the funeral of the deceased.
One theory is that he was called Jun, and he was in charge of killing and beheading.
If the ghost star is bright, there will be a good harvest; if it is not bright, the people will be scattered.
The star hopes that it will flicker and become unclear. If it shines brightly, there will be a war and the ministers will be killed.
The eight stars of Liusu are the chefs of heaven. They are in charge of the emperor's meals, blending the five flavors, and are also in charge of thunder and rain.
The seven stars in Qixiu, also called Tiandu, are in charge of clothing, embroidery, and sudden wars and thieves.
Therefore, if the star is bright, the king will be prosperous; if it is dark, the virtuous will not be able to live in peace, and the world will be empty.
The six stars of Zhangsu are in charge of treasures, utensils and clothes used in the ancestral temple, as well as the food and rewards of the Heavenly Chef.
If this star is bright, the ruler will be able to perform the five rituals and be in the right center of heaven.
The twenty-two stars of Yisu are the music palace of heaven, in charge of the affairs of singing and dancing artists, as well as the distant guests from Yimengdi and guests from remote areas.
This star is bright and huge, rituals and music are prosperous, and all kinds of treasures are available.
If this star moves, the barbarian envoys will come; if it separates, the emperor will send troops to fight.
The four stars of Zhen are in charge of Ming Zai, the assistant minister; they are in charge of vehicles and horses, responsible for carrying loads.
Whenever an army comes or goes, they must consult Zhensu for divination.
It is also in charge of wind and matters of death and funeral.
If Zhensu is bright, then chariots and chariots are available; if it is moving, chariots and chariots must be used.
Tianhe starts from the east and passes between Ojuku and Jijuku. It is called Hanjin.
So it was divided into two paths. The southern one passed by the Legend Star, the Fish Star, the Tianyou Star, the Tian Bian Star, and the Hegu Star. The northern one passed by the Turtle Star and went straight under the Ji Su. Then it circled the Kuixing and the Zuoqi Star of the Nandou until it was under the Tianjin Star and merged with the South Path.
This circle extends to the southwest, then separates to surround the Paogua star, and extends southward around the human star, Pestle star, Cepheid star, Tengshe star, Wang Liang star, Fuluxing star, the northern end of Gedao star, Tailing star, Tianchuan star, and Tongue star. , then surrounded the Five Chess star, passed through the southern end of the Pollux star, entered the Dongjing star and the Water level star, and then extended to the southeast, surrounding the Procyon star, the Queqiu star, the Tengu star, the Tianji star, and the Tianji star, and disappeared to the south of the Seven Stars.
Twelve times.
Ban Gu used twelve times to match the twelve divisions according to the "Three Unifications Calendar", and his explanation is the most detailed.
There are also Fei Zhi's explanations of "The Book of Changes" and "Yue Ling Zhang Ju" written by Cai Yong, and the contents discussed are quite different.
Wei Taishi ordered Chen Zhuo to re-determine the degrees of the constellations corresponding to each county, which are now attached in turn.
The longevity star from the 12th degree of Zhensu to the 4th degree of Disu is in Chen in the twelfth chen, which is the land of Zheng, and its position belongs to Yanzhou.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
费直《周易分野》，寿星起轸七度。
蔡邕《月令章句》，寿星起轸六度。
自氐五度至尾九度为大火，于辰在卯，宋之分野，属豫州。
费直，起氐十一度。
蔡邕，起亢八度。
自尾十度至南斗十一度为析木，于辰在寅，燕之分野，属幽州。
费直，起尾九度。
蔡邕，起尾四度。
自南斗十二度至须女七度为星纪，于辰在丑，吴越之分野，属扬州。
费直，起斗十度。
蔡邕，起斗六度。
自须女八度至危十五度为玄枵，于辰在子，齐之分野，属青州。
费直，起女六度。
蔡邕，起女十度。
自危十六度至奎四度为诹訾，于辰在亥，卫之分野，属并州。
费直，起危十四度。
蔡邕，起危十度。
自奎五度至胃六度为降娄，于辰在戌，鲁之分野，属徐州。
费直，起奎二度。
蔡邕，起奎八度。
自胃七度至毕十一度为大梁，于辰在酉，赵之分野，属冀州。
费直，起娄十度。
蔡邕，起胃一度。
自毕十二度至东井十五度为实沈，于辰在申，魏之分野，属益州。
费直，起毕九度。
蔡邕，起毕六度。
自东井十六度至柳八度为鹑首，于辰在未，秦之分野，属雍州。
费直，起井十二度。
蔡邕，起井十度。
自柳九度至张十六度为鹑火，于辰在午，周之分野，属三河。
费直，起柳五度。
蔡邕，起柳三度。
自张十七度至轸十一度为鹑尾，于辰在已，楚之分野，属荆州。
费直，起张十三度。
蔡邕，起张十二度。
州郡躔次陈卓、范蠡、鬼谷先生、张良、诸葛亮、谯周、京房、张衡并云：
角、亢、氐，郑，兗州：东郡入角一度
translation: 
Fei Zhi's "Book of Changes" says that the longevity star starts from Zhensu in the seventh degree.
Cai Yong's "Yue Ling Zhang Ju" says that the longevity star originates from the sixth degree of Zhensu.
From the fifth degree of Disu to the ninth degree of Osu, there was a great fire in the second battle. It was at Mao on the 12th day of the lunar month. It was the area of ​​Song Dynasty and belonged to Yuzhou.
Fei Zhi believes that it started from the eleventh degree of Disu.
Cai Yong believed that it originated from the eight degrees of Kangsu.
From the 10th degree of Osu to the 11th degree of Nandou, it is the division of wood in the twelve times. At Yin on the twelfth chen, it is the area of ​​​​Yan, and its position belongs to Youzhou.
Fei Zhi believes that it started from Ojuku Jiudu.
Cai Yong believed that it originated from Osu Fourth Degree.
From the twelfth degree of Nan Dou to the seventh degree of Xu Nu is the star period among the twelve times. It is in Chou at the twelfth o'clock. It is the area of ​​Wu and Yue, and it belongs to Yangzhou.
Fei Zhi believed that it originated from the ten degrees of Dou Su.
Cai Yong believed that it originated from the sixth degree of Dou Su.
Translated from the eighth degree of Xunusu to the fifteenth degree of Weisu, it is Xuanzhu among the twelve times. It is in Zi at the twelfth chen, which is the area of ​​​​Qidi, and its position belongs to Qingzhou.
Fei Zhi believes that it originated from the sixth degree of Nusu.
Cai Yong believed that it originated from the female dormitory Shidu.
From the 16th degree of Weisu to the 4th degree of Kuisu, it is Suzi among the twelve times. It is in Hai in the twelfth chen, which is the Weidi area and belongs to Bingzhou.
Fei Zhi believes that it starts from the fourteenth degree of Weisu.
Cai Yong believes that it starts from the tenth degree of danger.
From the fifth degree of Kuisu to the sixth degree of Weisu, it is Jianglou among the twelve times. It is in Xu in the middle of the twelfth chen. It is the area of ​​​​Lu and belongs to Xuzhou.
Fei Zhi believes that it originated from Kuisu twice.
Cai Yong believed that it originated from the eighth degree of Kuisu.
From the 7th degree of Weisu to the 11th degree of Bisu, it is the main beam of the twelve times. The middle of the twelve chen is in You, which is the area of ​​Zhao, and its position belongs to Jizhou.
Fei Zhi believes that it originated from Lousu Shidu.
Cai Yong's acquaintance originated from the stomach.
From the 12th degree of Bisu to the 15th degree of Dongjingsu, it actually sank twelve times. In the 12th hour, it was in Shen. It was the area of ​​Wei, and its position belonged to Yizhou.
Fei Zhi believes that it starts from the ninth degree of Biju.
Cai Yong believed that it started from the six degrees of Aldebara.
From the 16th degree of Dongsujing to the 8th degree of Liusu is the quail head among the twelve times. At the end of the twelfth chen, it is the territory of Qin and belongs to Yongzhou.
Fei Zhi believes that it originated from the twelfth degree of Jingsu.
Cai Yong believed that it originated from Jingsu Shidu.
From the ninth degree of Liusu to the sixteenth degree of Zhangsu is the quail fire among the twelve times. It is at noon in the twelfth chen. It is the area of ​​Zhou and its position belongs to the three rivers.
Fei Zhi believes that it originated from Liusu Wudu.
Cai Yong believed that it originated from Liusu Sandu.
From the 17th degree of Zhangsu to the 11th degree of Zhensu is the tail of the quail among the twelve times. It is already in the middle of the twelfth chen. It is the territory of Chu and its position belongs to Jingzhou.
Fei Zhi believes that it originated from the thirteenth degree of Zhang Su.
Cai Yong believed that it originated from Zhang Su's twelfth degree.
Chen Zhuo, Fan Li, Mr. Gui Gu, Zhang Liang, Zhuge Liang, Qiao Zhou, Jing Fang, and Zhang Heng all said:
Spica, Kangsu, and Disu correspond to Zhengdi, Yanzhou: Dongjun corresponds to one degree of Spica


Chunk 24: 
original: 
东平、任城、山阳入角六度泰山入角十二度济北陈留入亢五度
济阴入氐二度东平入氐七度
房、心，宋，豫州：颍川入房一度汝南入房二度
沛郡入房四度梁国入房五度
淮阳入心一度鲁国入心三度，
楚国入房四度。
尾、箕，燕，幽州：凉州入箕中十度上谷入尾一度
渔阳入尾三度右北平入尾七度
西河、上郡、北地、辽西东入尾十度涿郡入尾十六度
渤海入箕一度乐浪入箕三度
玄菟入箕六度广阳入箕九度。
斗、牵牛、须女，吴、越，扬州：
九江入斗一度庐江入斗六度
豫章入斗十度丹阳入斗十六度
会稽入牛一度临淮入牛四度
广陵入牛八度泗水入女一度
六安入女六度
虚、危，齐，青州：
齐国入虚六度北海入虚九度
济南入危一度乐安入危四度
东莱入危九度平原入危十一度
菑川入危十四度
营室、东壁，卫，并州：
安定入营室一度天水入营室八度
陇西入营室四度酒泉入营室十一度
张掖入营室十二度武都入东壁一度
金城入东壁四度武威入东壁六度
敦煌入东壁八度。
奎、娄、胃，鲁，徐州：
东海入奎一度琅邪入奎六度
高密入娄一度城阳入娄九度
胶东入胃一度
昴、毕，赵、冀州：
魏郡入昴一度钜鹿入昴三度
常山入昴五度广平入昴七度
中山入昴一度清河入昴九度
信都入毕三度赵郡入毕八度
安平入毕四度河间入毕十度
真定入毕十三度
觜、参，魏，益州：
广汉入觜一度越巂入觜三度
translation: 
Dongping, Rencheng and Shanyang correspond to angles of six degrees, Mount Tai corresponds to angles of twelve degrees, Jibei and Chenliu correspond to angles of five degrees.
Jiyin corresponds to the second degree of Di, and Dongping corresponds to the seventh degree of Di.
Fang, Xin, Song Dynasty, Yuzhou: Yingchuan corresponds to the first degree of the house, and Runan corresponds to the second degree of the house.
The corresponding room of Peijun is the fourth degree, and the corresponding room of Liang Guo is the fifth degree.
Huaiyang corresponds to the heart once, and Lu Guo corresponds to the heart three times.
The corresponding room of Chu State is four degrees.
Wei, Ji, Yan, Youzhou: Liangzhou corresponds to ten degrees in the middle of Ji, and Shanggu corresponds to one degree in the tail.
Yuyang corresponds to the third degree of the tail, and right Beiping corresponds to the seventh degree of the tail.
Xihe, Shangjun, Beidi, Liaoxi and east correspond to the last ten degrees, Zhuojun corresponds to the last sixteenth degree
The Bohai Sea corresponds to one degree of Ji, and Lelang corresponds to the third degree of Ji.
Xuantu corresponds to the sixth degree of Ji and Guangyang corresponds to the ninth degree of Ji.
Dou, morning glory, Xu Nu, Wu, Yue, Yangzhou:
Jiujiang fights for one degree Lujiang fights for six degrees
Yuzhang's fight against ten degrees and Danyang's fight against sixteen degrees
Kuaiji corresponds to Niu once, Linhuai corresponds to Niu four times.
Guangling corresponds to the ox octave, and Surabaya corresponds to the female octave.
Liu'an corresponds to the female sixth degree
Xu, Danger, Qi, Qingzhou:
The state of Qi corresponds to the sixth degree of virtuality, and the North Sea corresponds to the ninth degree of virtuality.
Jinan corresponds to the first degree of crisis, and Lean corresponds to the fourth degree of crisis.
Donglai corresponds to the ninth degree of danger, and the plain corresponds to the eleventh degree of danger.
Sichuan corresponds to the fourteenth degree of crisis
Camp room, east wall, guard, and state:
Stability corresponds to the first degree of the camp, and Tianshui corresponds to the eighth degree of the camp.
Longxi corresponds to the fourth degree of the barracks, and Jiuquan corresponds to the eleventh degree of the barracks.
Zhangye corresponds to the twelve degrees of the camp, and Wudu corresponds to one degree of the east wall.
Jincheng corresponds to the fourth degree of the east wall, and Wuwei corresponds to the sixth degree of the east wall.
Dunhuang corresponds to the octave of the east wall.
Kui, Lou, Wei, Lu, Xuzhou:
The East China Sea corresponds to the first degree of Kui, and Langye corresponds to the sixth degree of Kui.
High-density corresponds to Lou Yidu and Chengyang corresponds to Lou Jiudu.
Jiaodong corresponds to one degree of stomach
Pleiades, Bi, Zhao, Jizhou:
Weijun corresponds to the first degree of Pleiades, and the giant deer corresponds to the third degree of Pleiades.
Changshan corresponds to the fifth degree of Pleiades, and Guangping corresponds to the seventh degree of Pleiades.
Zhongshan corresponds to the first degree of Pleiades, and Qinghe corresponds to the ninth degree of Pleiades.
Xindu corresponds to the third degree of Bi, and Zhaojun corresponds to the eighth degree.
Anping corresponds to the fourth degree, and Hejian corresponds to the tenth degree.
True concentration corresponds to the thirteenth degree
Gan, Shen, Wei, Yizhou:
Guanghan corresponds to the first degree of "觅", and Yueyu corresponds to the third degree of "觅".


Chunk 25: 
original: 
蜀郡入参一度犍为人参三度
牂柯入参五度巴郡入参八度
汉中入参九度益州入参七度
东井、舆鬼，秦，雍州：
云中入东井一度定襄入东井八度
雁门入东井十六度代郡入东井二十八度
太原入东井二十九度上党入舆鬼二度。
柳、七星、张，周，三辅：
弘农入柳一度河南入七星三度
河东入张一度河内入张九度
翼、轸，楚。
荆州：
南阳入翼六度南郡入翼十度
江夏入翼十二度零陵入轸十一度
桂阳入轸六度武陵入轸十度
长沙入轸十六度
translation: 
Shu County corresponds to one degree of ginseng and three degrees of ginseng and ginseng.
Zangke corresponds to the fifth degree and Bajun corresponds to the eighth degree.
Hanzhong corresponds to the ninth degree, and Yizhou corresponds to the seventh degree.
Dongjing, Yugui, Qin, Yongzhou:
Yunzhong corresponds to the first degree of Dongjing, and Dingxiang corresponds to the eighth degree of Dongjing.
Yanmen corresponds to the sixteenth degree of Dongjing, and Daijun corresponds to the twenty-eighth degree of Dongjing.
Taiyuan corresponds to the twenty-ninth degree of Dongjing, and Shangdang corresponds to the second degree of Yugui.
Liu, Qixing, Zhang, Zhou, Sanfu:
Hongnong corresponds to the first degree of Liu, and Henan corresponds to the third degree of Qixing.
Hedong corresponds to Zhang Sudu, Hanoi corresponds to Zhang Jiudu
Yi, Zhen, Chu.
Jingzhou:
The corresponding wing of Nanyang is six degrees. The corresponding wing of Nanjun is ten degrees.
Jiangxia corresponds to the 12th degree of Yi, and Lingling corresponds to the 11th degree of Zhensu.
Guiyang corresponds to the sixth degree of Zhensu, Wuling corresponds to the tenth degree of Zhensu
Changsha corresponds to the sixteenth degree of Zhensu


