Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 2, 6, 8, 9, 10]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
昔在庖牺，观象察法，以通神明之德，以类天地之情，可以藏往知来，开物成务。
故《易》曰： 天垂象，见吉凶，圣人象之。
此则观乎天文以示变者也。
《尚书》曰： 天聪明自我民聪明。
此则观乎人文以成化者也。
是故政教兆于人理，祥变应乎天文，得失虽微，罔不昭著。
然则三皇迈德，七曜顺轨，日月无薄蚀之变，星辰靡错乱之妖。
黄帝创受《河图》，始明休咎，故其《星传》尚有存焉。
降在高阳，乃命南正重司天，北正黎司地。
爰洎帝喾，亦式序三辰。
唐虞则羲和继轨，有夏则昆吾绍德。
年代绵邈，文籍靡传。
至于殷之巫咸，周之史佚，格言遗记，于今不朽。其诸侯之史，则鲁有梓慎，晋有卜偃，郑有裨灶，宋有子韦，齐有甘德，楚有唐昧，赵有尹皋，魏有石申夫，皆掌著天文，各论图验。
其巫咸、甘、石之说，后代所宗。
暴秦燔书，六经残灭，天官星占，存而不毁。
及汉景武之际，司马谈父子继为史官，著《天官书》，以明天人之道。
其后中垒校尉刘向，广《洪范》灾条，作《皇极论》，以参往之行事。
及班固叙汉史，马续述《天文》，而蔡邕、谯周各有撰录，司马彪采之，以继前志。
今详众说，以著于篇。
古言天者有三家，一曰盖天，二曰宣夜，三曰浑天。
汉灵帝时，蔡邕于朔方上书，言 宣夜之学，绝无师法。
《周髀》术数具存，考验天状，多所违失。
translation: 
In the past, Ma Xi observed the phenomena and laws of nature with the purpose of understanding the virtues of Heaven and comprehending the true feelings between Heaven and Earth. From this, he could review the past, predict the future, reveal the truth of things, and make people and things suit their needs.
Therefore, the Book of Changes says: The heavens reveal celestial phenomena and show signs of good and bad luck, and the sages imitate these.
This is to observe the distribution and movement of the sun, moon and stars to show changes.
"Shangshu" says: The wisdom and understanding of heaven comes from the wisdom and understanding of our people.
This is to observe human ethics and culture to achieve enlightenment.
Therefore, the subtle signs of the quality of politics and religion lie in whether the people's sentiments are harmonious, changes in good and bad fortunes are in harmony with the celestial bodies and the universe, and although the gains and losses are very small, they are not unobvious.
Therefore, the three emperors were diligent and diligent, and the sun, moon and five stars followed their orbits. The sun and moon did not have the mutation of guest stars approaching thin eclipses, and the stars did not have strange phenomena of disordered movement.
Huangdi first studied the "River Map" and began to understand good and bad luck, good and evil, so his "Star Biography" is still preserved.
Later, in the Gaoyang period, Nan Zhengzhong was appointed to be in charge of astronomy, and Bei Zhengli was appointed to be in charge of geography.
When Emperor Ku was in power, he still observed the order of the sun, moon and stars.
In the Tang and Yu eras, it was the Xi family and the He family who inherited his rules, and in the Youxia era, it was Kunwu who inherited the previous rules.
However, it has been a long time and the literature and classics have not been handed down.
As for Wu Xian of the Yin Shang Dynasty and Shi Yi of the Zhou Dynasty, the historians of the vassal states, such as Zi Shen of Lu, Bu Yan of Jin, Bi Zao of Zheng, Zi Wei of Song, Gan De of Qi, Tang Mei of Chu, Yin Gao of Zhao, and Shi Shenfu of Wei, all were in charge of astronomical signs, and each discussed the fulfillment of the images.
Among them, the theories of Wu Xian, Gan De and Shi Shen Fuzhi were respected by future generations.
The tyrannical Qin Shihuang burned books, and the Six Classics were either damaged or reduced, but all the books on astronomy and stars were preserved and not destroyed.
Until the time of Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty and Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, Sima Tan and his son successively served as Taishi Ling and wrote the "Book of Heavenly Officials" to clarify the laws between heaven and man.
After that, Liu Xiang, the lieutenant of the Central Base, expanded the records of disaster laws in "Hong Fan" and compiled "Huang Ji Lun" to refer to past events.
When Ban Gu wrote the "Book of Han", Ma Xu wrote "Tianwen", Cai Yong, Qiao Zhou and others also wrote their own records. Sima Biao used the writings of these people to continue various previous records.
Now I have recorded everyone’s teachings in detail and written the following article.
In ancient times, there were three relevant theories proposed. One advocated the Gaitian theory, the other advocated the Xuanye theory, and the other advocated the Huntian theory.
During the reign of Emperor Ling of the Han Dynasty, Cai Yong wrote a letter to Shuofang, saying in the book: Xuan Ye's theory has no basis for learning.
All the mathematical arguments in "Zhou Bi" have been preserved, and there are many things that violate the facts when examining and testing the conditions of celestial bodies.

summary:
summary line 0: This allowed sages to review the past, predict the future, and align human affairs with natural laws. The *Book of Changes* states that Heaven reveals signs of good and bad luck through celestial phenomena, which sages imitate. Similarly, the *Shangshu* emphasizes that Heaven's wisdom is reflected in the people's understanding. The quality of governance is linked to the harmony of people's sentiments and celestial movements. The three emperors were diligent, and as a result, the sun, moon, and stars followed their proper courses without anomalies. Huangdi studied the "River Map" to understand good and bad luck, and his "Star Biography" survives. Later rulers appointed officials to oversee astronomy and geography, but many ancient texts were lost over time.

Chunk 0: 
original: 
昔在庖牺，观象察法，以通神明之德，以类天地之情，可以藏往知来，开物成务。
故《易》曰： 天垂象，见吉凶，圣人象之。
此则观乎天文以示变者也。
《尚书》曰： 天聪明自我民聪明。
此则观乎人文以成化者也。
是故政教兆于人理，祥变应乎天文，得失虽微，罔不昭著。
然则三皇迈德，七曜顺轨，日月无薄蚀之变，星辰靡错乱之妖。
黄帝创受《河图》，始明休咎，故其《星传》尚有存焉。
降在高阳，乃命南正重司天，北正黎司地。
爰洎帝喾，亦式序三辰。
唐虞则羲和继轨，有夏则昆吾绍德。
年代绵邈，文籍靡传。
至于殷之巫咸，周之史佚，格言遗记，于今不朽。其诸侯之史，则鲁有梓慎，晋有卜偃，郑有裨灶，宋有子韦，齐有甘德，楚有唐昧，赵有尹皋，魏有石申夫，皆掌著天文，各论图验。
其巫咸、甘、石之说，后代所宗。
暴秦燔书，六经残灭，天官星占，存而不毁。
及汉景武之际，司马谈父子继为史官，著《天官书》，以明天人之道。
其后中垒校尉刘向，广《洪范》灾条，作《皇极论》，以参往之行事。
及班固叙汉史，马续述《天文》，而蔡邕、谯周各有撰录，司马彪采之，以继前志。
今详众说，以著于篇。
古言天者有三家，一曰盖天，二曰宣夜，三曰浑天。
汉灵帝时，蔡邕于朔方上书，言 宣夜之学，绝无师法。
《周髀》术数具存，考验天状，多所违失。
translation: 
In the past, Ma Xi observed the phenomena and laws of nature with the purpose of understanding the virtues of Heaven and comprehending the true feelings between Heaven and Earth. From this, he could review the past, predict the future, reveal the truth of things, and make people and things suit their needs.
Therefore, the Book of Changes says: The heavens reveal celestial phenomena and show signs of good and bad luck, and the sages imitate these.
This is to observe the distribution and movement of the sun, moon and stars to show changes.
"Shangshu" says: The wisdom and understanding of heaven comes from the wisdom and understanding of our people.
This is to observe human ethics and culture to achieve enlightenment.
Therefore, the subtle signs of the quality of politics and religion lie in whether the people's sentiments are harmonious, changes in good and bad fortunes are in harmony with the celestial bodies and the universe, and although the gains and losses are very small, they are not unobvious.
Therefore, the three emperors were diligent and diligent, and the sun, moon and five stars followed their orbits. The sun and moon did not have the mutation of guest stars approaching thin eclipses, and the stars did not have strange phenomena of disordered movement.
Huangdi first studied the "River Map" and began to understand good and bad luck, good and evil, so his "Star Biography" is still preserved.
Later, in the Gaoyang period, Nan Zhengzhong was appointed to be in charge of astronomy, and Bei Zhengli was appointed to be in charge of geography.
When Emperor Ku was in power, he still observed the order of the sun, moon and stars.
In the Tang and Yu eras, it was the Xi family and the He family who inherited his rules, and in the Youxia era, it was Kunwu who inherited the previous rules.
However, it has been a long time and the literature and classics have not been handed down.
As for Wu Xian of the Yin Shang Dynasty and Shi Yi of the Zhou Dynasty, the historians of the vassal states, such as Zi Shen of Lu, Bu Yan of Jin, Bi Zao of Zheng, Zi Wei of Song, Gan De of Qi, Tang Mei of Chu, Yin Gao of Zhao, and Shi Shenfu of Wei, all were in charge of astronomical signs, and each discussed the fulfillment of the images.
Among them, the theories of Wu Xian, Gan De and Shi Shen Fuzhi were respected by future generations.
The tyrannical Qin Shihuang burned books, and the Six Classics were either damaged or reduced, but all the books on astronomy and stars were preserved and not destroyed.
Until the time of Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty and Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, Sima Tan and his son successively served as Taishi Ling and wrote the "Book of Heavenly Officials" to clarify the laws between heaven and man.
After that, Liu Xiang, the lieutenant of the Central Base, expanded the records of disaster laws in "Hong Fan" and compiled "Huang Ji Lun" to refer to past events.
When Ban Gu wrote the "Book of Han", Ma Xu wrote "Tianwen", Cai Yong, Qiao Zhou and others also wrote their own records. Sima Biao used the writings of these people to continue various previous records.
Now I have recorded everyone’s teachings in detail and written the following article.
In ancient times, there were three relevant theories proposed. One advocated the Gaitian theory, the other advocated the Xuanye theory, and the other advocated the Huntian theory.
During the reign of Emperor Ling of the Han Dynasty, Cai Yong wrote a letter to Shuofang, saying in the book: Xuan Ye's theory has no basis for learning.
All the mathematical arguments in "Zhou Bi" have been preserved, and there are many things that violate the facts when examining and testing the conditions of celestial bodies.

summary:
summary line 1: During the Yin Shang and Zhou dynasties, various historians and astronomers, such as Wu Xian, Shi Yi, and others from different states, were responsible for interpreting celestial signs. Their theories, particularly those of Wu Xian, Gan De, and Shi Shenfu, were highly regarded. Despite Qin Shihuang's book burning, astronomical texts were preserved. During the Han Dynasty, Sima Tan and his son wrote the "Book of Heavenly Officials," and later scholars like Liu Xiang, Ban Gu, Ma Xu, Cai Yong, and Qiao Zhou expanded on these records. The text then introduces three ancient cosmological theories: the Gaitian (hemispherical sky) theory, the Xuanye (infinite void) theory, and the Huntian (celestial sphere) theory. Cai Yong favored the Huntian theory, which was used in the armillary sphere observatory. The Gaitian theory, described in the "Zhou Bi," posits a round sky like an umbrella and a square earth like a chessboard, with the sun and moon moving in relation to the celestial body. The Xuanye theory, promoted by Ximeng, suggests the sky is a boundless void with stars floating freely, their movements governed by atmospheric forces.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
宣夜之书亡，惟汉秘书郎郗萌记先师相传云： 天了无质，仰而瞻之，高远无极，眼瞀精绝，故苍苍然也。
譬之旁望远道之黄山而皆青，俯察千仞之深谷而窈黑，夫青非真色，而黑非有体也。
日月众星，自然浮生虚空之中，其行其止皆须气焉。
是以七曜或逝或住，或顺或逆，伏见无常，进退不同，由乎无所根系，故各异也。
故辰极常居其所，而北斗不与众星西没也。
摄提、填星皆东行，日行一度，月行十三度，迟疾任情，其无所系著可知矣。
若缀附天体，不得尔也。
成帝咸康中，会稽虞喜因宣夜之说作《安天论》，以为 天高穷于无穷，地深测于不测。
天确乎在上，有常安之形；地塊焉在下，有居静之体。
当相覆冒，方则俱方，圆则俱圆，无方圆不同之义也。
其光曜布列，各自运行，犹江海之有潮汐，万品之有行藏也 。
葛洪闻而讥之曰： 苟辰宿不丽于天，天为无用，便可言无，何必复云有之而不动乎？
由此而谈，稚川可谓知言之选也。
虞喜族祖河间相耸又立穹天论云： 天形穹隆如鸡子，幕其际，周接四海之表，浮于元气之上。
譬如覆奁以抑水，而不没者，气充其中故也。
日绕辰极，没西而还东，不出入地中。
天之有极，犹盖之有斗也。
天北下于地三十度，极之倾在地卯酉之北亦三十度，人在卯酉之南十馀万里，故斗极之下不为地中，当对天地卯酉之位耳。
日行黄道绕极，极北去黄道百一十五度，南去黄道六十七度，二至之所舍以为长短也。
吴太常姚信造昕天论云： 人为灵虫，形最似天。
今人颐前侈临胸，而项不能覆背。
translation: 
All the books promoting Xuan Ye's theory have been lost. Only Han secretary Lang Ximeng recorded the legend of the late master: The sky has no texture at all. Looking up at it, it is so high and high that there is no limit. It is dazzling and full of energy, so it looks like a vast expanse.
For example, the loess mountains in the distance all appear cyan, while overlooking the thousand-foot-deep valley, they all appear dark. The green color is not the original color; the black color is not because of something.
The sun, moon and stars naturally float in the void, and their movements and stops all depend on the atmosphere.
Therefore, the seven stars sometimes disappear and sometimes appear, sometimes move forward and sometimes retrograde. There are no party rules for hiding and appearing, and their advancement and regression are also different. This is because they have no foundation to tie them together, so each one is different.
So the North Star is always in that fixed position, and the Big Dipper does not set with the other stars.
The stars Sagitti and Saturn both move eastward, one degree per day and thirteen degrees per month. The speed is very arbitrary and there is no rule, so it is feasible to know that it has nothing to do with it.
If it is attached to the celestial body, it cannot be like this.
During the reign of Emperor Cheng of Xiankang, Yu Xi of Kuaiji wrote "An Tian Lun" based on Xuan Ye's theory, arguing that: The sky is very high and endless, and the earth is very deep and unfathomable.
The sky is knotted and high above, and has the shape of constant stability; the earth is solid and real, and has a static and unchanging body below.
They should cover each other, the square will be square, the circle will be full circle, there is no reason why the square and the circle are different.
Their illumination, arrangement, and their respective movements are just like the tides of the river and the sea, and like all things having their own behavior and behavior.
When Ge Hong heard about it, he laughed at him and said: If the stars do not appear in the sky, the sky is of no use. You can say that it does not exist. Why should you say that it exists and does not move?
From this point of view, it can be said that Wakkagawa understands that discussion must be a choice.
Yu Xi's grandfather, Hejian Xiang Yushu, wrote "Lun on the Sky" and said: The shape of the celestial body is bulging in the middle and drooping around, like an egg in its shell. Its surrounding edges are connected to the edges of the four seas and float on the vitality.
It's like an upside-down basin placed on top of running water. The reason it doesn't sink is because the gas fills it.
The sun moves around the north, sets in the west, and rises in the east, without entering or leaving the earth.
The sky has four poles, just like there must be a bucket on the umbrella cover.
The north side of the celestial body is tilted downward by 30 degrees. The bottom of the pole is 30 degrees north of the corresponding point on the earth. People are more than 100,000 miles south of the corresponding point. Therefore, below the north celestial pole is not the center of the earth, but should be facing the position of the corresponding point on the sky and the earth.
The sun moves along the ecliptic around the pole, and the north of the pole is 115 degrees from the ecliptic, and the south is 67 degrees from the ecliptic. The length of the stop at the winter solstice and summer solstice has a difference in time.
Wu Taichang and Yao Xin wrote "Xintian Lun", saying: Man is the spirit of all things, and his body is most like the sky.
Nowadays, people's chin protrudes forward and above the chest, and the neck cannot cover the back.

summary:
summary line 2: The text then discusses various proponents and critics of these theories. Yu Xi of Kuaiji wrote "An Tian Lun" based on Xuanye theory, arguing that the sky is infinitely high and the earth unfathomably deep. Ge Hong criticized this view, questioning the existence of stars if they are not attached to the sky. Yu Xi's grandfather, Yushu, proposed that the celestial body is like an egg, with the earth floating on vitality. Yao Xin's "Xintian Lun" compared the sky's shape to a human chin, explaining seasonal temperature changes based on the pole's height. The text notes that these theorists were not dedicated astronomers. Wang Zhongren refuted the Huntian theory, arguing that the sky cannot move through water underground. He claimed that the sun's setting is an illusion of distance, like a torch disappearing on a distant plain. Ge Hong defended the Huntian theory, comparing the celestial body to an egg with the earth as the yolk, and explaining the sun's entry and exit from water using hexagrams from the *Book of Changes*.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
王生又云远故视之员。
若审然者，月初生之时及既亏之后，何以视之不员乎？
而日食或上或下，从侧而起，或如钩至尽。
若远视见员，不宜见其残缺左右所起也。
此则浑天之理，信而有徵矣。
◎仪象《虞书》曰： 在旋玑玉衡，以齐七政。 《考灵曜》云： 分寸之咎，代天气生，以制方员。
方员以成，参以规矩。
昏明主时，乃命中星观玉仪之游。
郑玄谓以玉为浑仪也。
《春秋文曜钩》云： 唐尧既位，羲和立浑仪。
此则仪象之设，其来远矣。
绵代相传，史官禁密，学者不睹，故宣、盖沸腾。
暨汉太初，落下闳、鲜于妄人、耿寿昌等造员仪以考历度。
后至和帝时，贾选逵系作，又加黄道。
至顺帝时，张衡又制浑象，具内外规、南北极、黄赤道，列二十四气、二十八宿中外星官及日月五纬，以漏水转之于殿上室内，星中出没与天相应。
因其关戾，又转瑞轮蓂荚于阶下，随月虚盈，依历开落。
其后陆绩亦造浑象。
至吴时，中常侍庐江王蕃善数术，传刘洪《乾象历》，依其法而制浑仪，立论考度曰：
前儒旧说天地之体，状如鸟卵，天包地外，犹壳之果黄也；周旋无端，其形浑浑然，故曰浑天也。周天三百六十五度五百八十九分度之百四十五，半覆地上，半在地下。
其二端谓之南极、北极。
北极出地三十六度，南极入地三十六度，两极相去一百八十二度半强。
绕北极径七十二度，常见不隐，谓之上规。
绕南极七十二度，常隐不见，谓之下规。赤道带天之纮，去两极各九十一度少强。
translation: 
Wang Sheng also said that it looked round because it was far away.
If this is indeed the case, why does the moon look out of round when it first rises and after it is no longer round?
The solar eclipse is sometimes above and sometimes below, waning from the side, sometimes like a hook until it is invisible.
If you look at a cloud from a distance and it looks round, you should not see the appearance caused by its incomplete left and right sides.
From this point of view, the theory of Hun Tian is true and well-founded.
"Yu Shu" said: Examine the astronomical instruments such as jade scales to identify the sun, moon and five stars. "Kao Ling Yao" said: The tiny sun and moon appear instead of time to determine the radius.
After the square and circle are made, refer to the rules and regulations.
The Lord distinguishes time between night and day, and orders the stars to observe the movement of the armillary sphere.
Zheng Xuan said that it was an armillary sphere made of jade.
"Spring and Autumn Wen Yao Gou" says: After Tang Yao came to power, Xihe created the armillary sphere.
It seems that the setting and use of the astronomical instrument has a long history.
It has been passed down from generation to generation, and historians strictly guarded the secrets. Scholars have never seen it, so Xuanye theory and Gaitian theory are flourishing and popular.
In the early years of the Han Dynasty, Luo Xiahong, Xianyu Wangren, Geng Shouchang and others created Yuanyi to calculate degrees.
Later, during the reign of Emperor He, Jia Kui continued research and production, and added the orbit of the sun around the earth.
At the time of Emperor Shun, Zhang Heng made an armillary sphere, which had inner and outer rules, the north and south poles, the ecliptic, etc., and listed the twenty-four solar terms, the twenty-eight internal and external astronomical phenomena, the sun, the moon, and the five stars of metal, wood, water, fire and earth. He used water leakage to make it rotate in the room above the main hall. The appearance of the stars on the instrument corresponded to the celestial phenomena in the dead of night.
The mutual rotation drives the moon and auspicious grass below to bloom and fall according to the calendar as the moon waxes and wanes.
After that, Lu Ji also made the armillary sphere.
During the time of the Wu Kingdom, Wang Fan, the Chief Minister of Lujiang, was good at astronomy and calendar. He taught Liu Hong's "Qianxiang Calendar" and made the armillary sphere according to the above rules. He established the argument and examined the discussion and said:
The old theory of scholars in the past is that the shape of the sky and the earth is like a bird's egg, with the sky wrapped outside the earth, just like the egg shell wrapping the yolk; the cycle runs endlessly, and its shape is chaotic and unclear, so it is called the Huntian. A circle around the sky is 145 of 365 degrees 589 degrees, half of it is covered on the ground, and the other half is hidden underground.
Its two ends are called the South Pole and the North Pole.
The North Pole is 36 degrees above the ground, and the South Pole is 36 degrees underground. The difference between the two poles is more than 182 and a half degrees.
The path around the North Pole is 72 degrees, and there are always invisible clouds, which are called the upper reaches.
The seventy-two degrees surrounding the South Pole are often hidden and not visible, and are called the lower circumference. The equator surrounds the circumference of the celestial body, and is a little over ninety-one degrees from the two poles.

summary:
summary line 3: The debate continues with Huan Junshan's observations supporting the Huntian theory. He noted that during the equinoxes, the sun's path is not symmetrical, and the sun's shadow behaves differently than predicted by the Gaitian theory. He argued that the sun's movement from east to west, without turning north, contradicts the Gaitian model. The text also addresses the sun's size and visibility, refuting Wang Sheng's torch analogy. The sun's diameter is given as one thousand miles, and its light does not diminish as it sets, unlike a torch. The sun's setting shape, like a broken mirror, further supports the Huntian theory. The text concludes that the Huntian theory is well-founded, citing ancient texts like "Yu Shu" and "Kao Ling Yao" that describe armillary spheres. The development of the armillary sphere is traced from Luo Xiahong and Geng Shouchang in the Han Dynasty to Zhang Heng's refined version, which used water power to simulate celestial movements.

Chunk 8: 
original: 
《洛书甄曜度》、《春秋考异邮》皆云： 周天一百七万一千里，一度为二千九百三十二里七十一步二尺七寸四分四百八十七分分之三百六十二。
陆绩云： 天东西南北径三十五万七千里。
此言周三径一也。
考之径一不啻周三，率周百四十二而径四十五，则天径三十二万九千四百一里一百二十二步二尺二寸一分七十一分分之十。
《周礼》： 日至之景尺有五寸，谓之地中。
郑众说： 土圭之长尺有五寸，以夏至之日立八尺之表，其景与土圭等，谓之地中，今颍川阳城地也。
郑玄云： 凡日景于地，千里而差一寸，景尺有五寸者，南戴日下万五千里也。
以此推之，日当去其下地八万里矣。
日邪射阳城，则天径之半也。
天体员如弹丸，地处天之半，而阳城为中，则日春秋冬夏，昏明昼夜，去阳城皆等，无盈缩矣。
故知从日邪射阳城，为天径之半也。
以句股法言之，旁万五千里，句也；立八万里，股也；从日邪射阳城，弦也。
以句股求弦法入之，得八万一千三百九十四里三十步五尺三寸六分，天径之半而地上去天之数也。
倍之，得十六万二千七百八十八里六十一步四尺七寸二分，天径之数也。
以周率乘之，径率约之，得五十一万三千六百八十七里六十八步一尺八寸二分，周天之数也。
减《甄曜度》、《考异邮》五十五万七千三百一十七里有奇。
一度凡千四百六里百二十四步六寸四分十万七千五百六十五分分之万九千四十九，减旧度千五百二十五里二百五十六步三尺三寸二十一万五千一百三十分分之十六万七百三十。
分黄赤二道，相兴交错，其间相去二十四度。
以两仪推之，二道俱三百六十五度有奇，是以知天体员如弹丸也。
而陆绩造浑象，其形如鸟卵，然则黄道应长于赤道矣。
绩云 天东西南北径三十五万七千里 ，然则绩亦以天形正员也，而浑象为鸟卵，则为自相违背。
古旧浑象以二分为一度，凡周七尺三寸半分。
张衡更制，以四分为一度，凡周一丈四尺六寸一分。
◎天文经星《洪范传曰》： 清而明者，天之体也。天忽变色，是谓易常。
天裂，阳不足，是谓臣强。
translation: 
"Luoshu Zhen Yaodu" and "Chunqiu Kao Yiyou" both say: A circle around the sky is one hundred and seventy-one thousand miles, and one time is two thousand nine hundred and thirty-two miles, seventy-one steps, two feet and seven inches.
Lu Ji said: The diameter of heaven from east to west, north to south is 357,000 miles.
This means that the ratio of circumference to diameter is three to one.
Consider that the diameter is one and the circumference is not just three. The circumference is approximately one hundred and forty-two and the diameter is forty-five. Then the diameter of the celestial body is three hundred and twenty-nine thousand four hundred and one miles, one hundred and twenty-two steps, two feet, two inches, one minute and seventy-one-tenths.
"Zhou Rites": The shadow of the sun at the summer solstice is one foot and five inches long, which is called the middle of the earth.
Zheng Zhong said: The length of the Tugui used to measure the sun's shadow is one foot and five inches. On the summer solstice, an eight-foot jinghua watch was erected. Its shadow length is equal to that of the Tugui, and it is called Dizhong, which is the current place in Yangcheng, Yingchuan.
Zheng Xuan said: When the shadow of the sun falls on the ground, the difference is one inch per thousand miles. The reason why the shadow is one foot and five inches long is precisely because the sun in the south is fifteen thousand miles away.
Based on this calculation, the sun should be 80,000 miles away from the earth below it.
The sun's oblique angle to Yangcheng is exactly half the diameter of the celestial body.
The celestial body is round like a projectile, the earth is in half of the celestial body, and Yangcheng is in the middle, so the sun is the same distance from Yangcheng in spring, autumn, winter, summer, night or day, without increasing or decreasing.
Therefore, we know that the slant angle from the sun to Yangcheng is half of the diameter of the celestial body.
From the perspective of the Pythagorean algorithm, the horizontal side stretching to the sky for fifteen thousand miles is a hook; the vertical side of eighty thousand miles is a stock; the sun slanting towards Yangcheng is a string.
Using the Pythagorean method, we get 81,394 li, 30 paces, 5 feet, 3 inches and 6 minutes, which is exactly half the diameter of the celestial body and the number of days from the celestial body on the ground.
If doubled, we get one hundred and sixty-two thousand seven hundred and eighty-eight miles, sixty-one steps, four feet, seven inches and two minutes, which is exactly the diameter of the celestial body.
Multiplied by the pi ratio and the diameter ratio are simplified and calculated, we get 513,687 miles, 68 steps, one foot, eight inches and two minutes, which is exactly the number of the celestial body's circumference.
It is more than 557,317 miles less than "Zhen Yaodu" and "Kao Yiyou".
At one time, it was 1,460 miles, 124 paces, 6 inches, 49,490/107,565, which is 1,525 miles, 256 paces, 3 feet, 3 inches, 215,130/16730 less than the old state.
It is divided into the ecliptic and the equator, and the two intersect with each other, with a distance of 24 degrees in between.
Calculating from the sky and the earth, both directions are 365 degrees Hu Yu, so we know that the celestial bodies are as round as projectiles.
Lu Ji made an armillary sphere, which was shaped like a bird's egg, so the ecliptic should be longer than the equator.
Lu Ji said that the diameters of celestial bodies from east to west, north and south are all 357,000 miles. So Lu Ji believed that the shape of celestial bodies is a perfect circle, but the armillary sphere is made into a bird's egg shape. This is a contradiction.
The old armillary sphere in ancient times was divided into two parts, and roughly one week was seven feet, three and a half minutes.
Zhang Heng changed the old system and divided it into four parts, and the circumference was one foot, four feet, six inches and one minute.
Wang Fan believed that the ancient style development stage was too small, the stars were too densely distributed, and Zhang Heng's instrument was too large to move, so he rebuilt the armillary sphere, dividing one degree into three points, and a celestial body circle is one foot, nine inches, five minutes and three quarters. "Hong Fan Zhuan" says: Clear and bright things are celestial bodies. The celestial body suddenly changes color, which is called changing the routine.
The celestial body is cracked and Yang Qi is insufficient. This is because I am too strong.

summary:
summary line 4: The text then provides a detailed description of the celestial sphere according to the Huntian theory. The sky is like an eggshell surrounding the earth, with the North Pole 36 degrees above the ground and the South Pole 36 degrees below. The equator and ecliptic intersect at specific points, and the sun's movement along the ecliptic determines the seasons and day length. The sun's position at the winter and summer solstices is given, along with the corresponding shadow lengths. The text also discusses the calculation of the celestial sphere's dimensions, using the Pythagorean theorem to estimate the sun's distance and the celestial body's circumference. Various ancient texts provide different measurements, but the text emphasizes that the celestial body is round like a projectile. The armillary sphere's construction is described, with Zhang Heng's and Wang Fan's versions differing in size and division of degrees.

Chunk 9: 
original: 
天裂见人，兵起国亡。
天鸣有声，至尊忧且惊。
皆乱国之所生也。
马续云： 天文在图籍昭昭可知者，经星常宿中外官凡一百一十八名，积数七百八十三，皆有州国官宫物类之象。
张衡云： 文曜丽乎天，其动者有七，日月五星是也。
日者，阳精之宗；月者，阴精之宗；五星，五行之精。
众星列布，体生于地，精成于天，列居错峙，各有攸属。在野象物，在朝象官，在人象神。
其以神差，有五列焉，是为三十五名。
一居中央，谓之北斗。
四布于方各七，为二十八舍。
日月运行，历示吉凶，五纬躔次，用告祸福。
中外之官，常明者百有二十四，可名者三百二十，为星二千五百，微星之数盖万有一千五百二十。
庶物蠢蠢，咸得系命。
不然，何得总而理诸？
后武帝时，太史令陈卓总甘、石、巫咸三家所著星图，大凡二百八十三官，一千四百六十四星，以为定纪。
今略其昭昭者，以备天官云。
◎中宫北极五星，钩陈六星，皆在紫宫中。
北极，北辰最尊者也，其纽星，天之枢也。
天运无穷，三光迭耀，而极星不移，故曰 居其所而众星共之 。
第一星主月，太子也。
第二星主日，帝王也；亦太乙之坐，谓最赤明者也。
第三星主五星，庶子也。
中星不明，主不用事；右星不明，太子忧。
钩陈，后宫也，大帝之正妃也，大帝之常居也。
北四星曰女御宫，八十一御妻之象也。
钩陈口中一星曰天皇大帝，其神曰耀魄宝，主御群灵，执万神图。
抱北极四星曰四辅，所以辅佐北极而出度授政也。
大帝上九星曰华盖，所以覆蔽大帝之坐也。
盖下九星曰杠，盖之柄也。
translation: 
The celestial bodies split open and people appear, wars arise and countries perish.
The celestial bodies chirped and made sounds, and the emperor woke up worried.
These are all causes of chaos in domestic production.
Ma Xu said: Astronomy can be clearly understood in the atlas and classics. There are 118 Chinese and foreign officials in the twenty-eight constellations and other stars, and the total number is 783. They are all similar to the images of states, states, government offices, and palaces.
Zhang Heng said: The sun, moon and stars are attached to the sky, and there are seven moving ones among them: the sun, the moon and the five stars of gold, wood, water, fire and earth.
The sun is the origin of the yang essence; the moon is the origin of the yin essence; the five stars are the origin of the five elements of metal, wood, water, fire and earth.
The stars are arranged in a jumbled manner, each with its own place. If it corresponds to the common people, it should be based on physical phenomena; if it corresponds to the imperial court, it should imitate official images; if it corresponds to human feelings, it should imitate various things.
Among them, there are five columns, thirty-five in total, who are famous for their gods.
One in the center is called the Big Dipper.
Four are distributed in four directions, each with seven, forming twenty-eight houses.
The sun and the moon are constantly moving to show good and bad luck, and the positions of the five planets in their orbits are used to tell blessings.
Among the internal and external officials, there are 124 stars that are always bright, 320 stars that can be named, 2,500 stars that are counted, and the number of tiny stars is about 11,520.
The common things are numerous and messy, and all of them can be relied upon for life.
Otherwise, how can we achieve unified governance?
Later, during the reign of Emperor Wu, Taishi ordered Chen Zhuo to compile a star map composed by Gan De, Shi Shenfu and Wu Xian. It was believed that there were approximately 283 star officials and 1,464 stars.
Now write down those that are very clear and understandable to prepare for the celestial phenomena. translate
There were five stars in the North Pole last night and six stars in Gouchen last night, all of which are among the purple stars.
Polaris is the most noble of the North Pole constellations, and its fifth star, New Star, is the hub of the sky.
The motion of the celestial bodies is endless. The three lights of the sun, moon and stars shine one after another, and the North Star moves from behind. Therefore, it is said that it is in its position and the other stars surround it.
The first star represents the moon, like Prince Wei.
The second star represents the sun, like a micro-emperor; that is, the Taiyi star, which refers to the reddest and most beautiful one.
The third star represents the five stars, like the son of the common people.
If the middle star is not bright, it indicates that the emperor cannot be in power; if the right star is not bright, it is a worry for the prince.
Gouchenxing, like the harem, is the emperor's concubine and the emperor's permanent residence.
The four stars in the north are the female royal palaces, and the eighty-one royal wives are reflected in the image.
One of the stars in the Gouchen constellation is called the Emperor, and its god is called Yao Po Bao, who dominates all living things and controls the map of the gods.
The four stars surrounding the North Pole are called Sifu, and they are used to assist the North Pole in issuing laws.
The nine stars above the Emperor are called canopies, which are used to cover the throne of the Emperor of Heaven.
The nine stars under the canopy are called "bang" and are the handle of the canopy.

summary:
summary line 5: The text then lists various celestial phenomena and their interpretations, such as changes in the sky's color or sounds, which indicate political turmoil. It describes the classification of stars into 283 official groups, totaling 1,464 stars, based on the works of Gan De, Shi Shenfu, and Wu Xian. The North Pole stars, including Polaris and Gouchen, are detailed, with each star representing different aspects of the imperial court. The Big Dipper is described as the center of the celestial body, controlling the four directions and seasons. Its seven stars are associated with various earthly and celestial functions, such as governance, punishment, and military affairs. Other constellations, such as Wenchang, Taiwei, and Langwei, are linked to specific officials and their duties. The text emphasizes that the stars' brightness and movements reflect the state of the world, with bright stars indicating good governance and dim or moving stars foretelling disaster.

Chunk 10: 
original: 
华盖下五星曰五帝内坐，设叙顺帝所居也。
客星犯紫宫中坐，大臣犯主。
华盖杠旁六星曰六甲，可以分阴阳而配节候，故在帝旁，所以布政教而授农时也。
极东一星曰柱下史，主记过；左右史，此之象也。
柱史北一星曰女史，妇人之微者，主传漏，故汉有侍史。传舍九星在华盖上，近河，宾客之馆，主胡人入中国。客星守之，备奸使，亦曰胡兵起。传舍南河中五星曰造父，御官也，一曰司马，或曰伯乐。
星亡，马大贵。
其西河中九星如钩状，曰钩星，直则地动。
天一星在紫宫门右星南，天帝之神也，主战斗，知人吉凶者也。
太一星在天一南，相近，亦天帝神也，主使十六神，知风雨水旱、兵革饥谨、疾疫灾害所在之国也。
紫宫垣十五星，其西番七，东番八，在北斗北。
一曰紫微，大帝之坐也，天子之常居也，主命主度也。
一曰长垣，一曰天营，一曰旗星，为番卫，备番臣也。
宫阙兵起，旗星直，天子出，自将宫中兵。东垣下五星曰天柱，建政教，悬图法。门内东南维五星曰尚书，主纳言，夙夜谘谋；龙作纳言，此之象也。
西南角外二星曰内厨，主六宫之内饮食，主平刑断狱也。
门外六星曰天床，主寝舍，解息燕休。
西南角外二星曰内厨，主六宫之内饮食，主后妃夫人与太子宴饮。
东北维外六星曰天厨，主盛馔。
北斗七星在太微北，七政之枢机，阴阳之元本也。
故运乎天中，而临制四方，以建四时，而均五行也。
魁四星为旋玑，杓三星为玉衡。
又曰，斗为人君之象，号令之主也。
又为帝车，取乎运动之义也。
又魁第一星曰天枢，二曰璇，三曰玑，四曰权，五曰玉衡，六曰开阳，七曰摇光，一至四为魁，五至七为杓。
枢为天，璇为地，玑为人，权为时，玉衡为音，开阳为律，摇光为星。
石氏云： 第一曰正星，主阳德，天子之象也。
二曰法星，主阴刑，女主之位也。
三曰令星，主中祸。
四曰伐星，主天理，伐无道。
五曰杀星，主中央，助四旁，杀有罪。
六曰危星，主天仓五谷。
七曰部星，亦曰应星，主兵。
又云： 一主天，二主地，三主火，四主水，五主土，六主木，七主金。
又曰： 一主秦，二主楚，三主梁，四主吴，五主燕，六主赵，七主齐。
魁中四星为贵人之牢，曰天理也。
辅星傅乎开阳，所以佐斗成功，丞相之象也。
七政星明，其国昌；辅星明，则臣强。
杓南三星及魁第一星西三星皆曰三公，主宜德化，调七政，和阴阳之官也。
文昌六星，在北斗魁前，天之六府也，主集计天道。
一曰上将，大将军建威武。
二曰次将，尚书正左右。
三曰贵相，太常理文绪。
四曰司禄、司中，司隶赏功进。
五曰司命、司怪，太史主灭咎。
六曰司冠，大理佐理宝。
所谓一者，起北斗魁前近内阶者也。
明润，大小齐，天瑞臻。
文昌北六星曰内阶，天皇之阶也。
相一星在北斗南。
相者，总领百司而掌邦教，以佐帝王安邦国，集众事也。
其星明，吉。
translation: 
The five stars under the canopy are called the Five Emperors, and they are arranged in the order of the Five Emperors.
If a guest star violates the middle sign of a micro star, it means that the minister has violated the monarch.
The six stars next to the handle of the canopy are called Liujia, which can distinguish yin and yang and coordinate the seasonal climate. Therefore, the place next to the emperor's throne is used to announce political and religious matters and teach farming seasons.
The easternmost star is called Zhu Xia Shi, who is in charge of recording faults; Zuo Shi and You Shi, a lowly female official, are in charge of reporting the time, so there were attendant historians in the Han Dynasty.
The nine stars of Chuanshe are on the top of the canopy, close to the Tianhe River, like a building for entertaining guests, indicating that the barbarian people have entered the Central Plains. The guest star keeps watch to guard against treacherous envoys. This star is also called Hu Bingqi. The five stars in the Tianhe south of the Chuanshe are called Zaofu, an official serving the emperor, also called Sima, or Bole.
If this star disappears, the horse will be very precious.
The miscellaneous stars in the Milky Way to the west of it are like hooks, which are called hook stars. If they form a straight line, earthquakes will occur.
The Tianyi star is to the south of the right star of the Purple Palace Gate. It is the god of the Emperor of Heaven. He is in charge of wars and expeditions and can predict people's bad luck.
The Taiyi star is very close to the south of the Tianyi star. It is also the god of the Emperor of Heaven. It is responsible for commanding the sixteen gods and can predict which country will have wind, inch, flood, drought, war, famine, and plague disasters.
Ziweiyuan has fifteen stars, including seven in the west and eight in the east, north of the Big Dipper.
One is called Ziwei, which is the throne of the Emperor of Heaven. It is where the Emperor usually sits and is in charge of orders and regulations.
One is called Changyuan, one is called Tianying, and the other is called Qixing. They serve as barriers and guards to guard against Tibetan ministers.
If there are soldiers in the palace, the five stars under the east wall are called Tianzhu, which is responsible for establishing politics and religion, and publishing laws. The five stars in the southeast corner of the door are called Shangshu, which is responsible for cashiering the king's orders and consulting and planning day and night. The Dragon has set up the official Nayan, which is the symbol of this star.
The two stars to the west of Shangshu are Yin De and Yang De, which are responsible for providing relief to those in need and those who are in need. The two stars in the left star of the palace gate are called Dali, and they are in charge of judgments, lawsuits and prisons.
The six stars outside the door are called Tian Bed Stars, which are in charge of palaces and dormitories, where you can live and rest.
The two stars outside the southwest corner are called the internal kitchen stars, which are in charge of the food in the sixth house, and are in charge of the banquets of the concubines, ladies and princes.
The six stars outside the northeast corner are called Tianchu stars, which are in charge of grand banquets.
The Big Dipper is located to the north of Taiwei Yuan. It is the center of the sun, moon and stars, and the origin of yin and yang.
Therefore, it runs in the center of the celestial body and controls the four directions to establish the four seasons and balance the five elements.
The four stars in Kuibu are called Xuanji, and the three stars in Yubu are called Yuheng.
Another saying is that Dou is the symbol of the crowd and the master who issues orders.
It is also the emperor's chariot, which means sports.
The first star of the Big Dipper is called Tianshu, the second star is called Xuan, the third star is called Ji, the fourth star is called Quan, the fifth star is called Yuheng, the sixth star is called Kaiyang, and the seventh star is called Yaoguang; the first to fourth stars are the leader, and the fifth to seventh stars are the handle.
Extremely heaven, Xuan is the earth, Ji is the human being, Quan is the time, Yuheng is the sound, Kaiyang is the rhythm, and the shaking light is the star.
Shi said: The first star is called the Zhengxing, which governs Yang De and is the symbol of the Emperor.
The second one is called Dharma Star, which governs Yin punishment and is the position of the Queen.
The third one is called the Ling Star, which is in charge of disaster.
The fourth one is called the Fighting Star, which governs heavenly principles and fights against the unjust.
The fifth one is called the Killing Star, which is in charge of the center, with Sasuke on all sides, killing the guilty.
The sixth star is called Wei Xing, which is in charge of Tiancang's grain.
The seventh star is called the Bu Star, also called the Ying Star, and is in charge of military and revolutionary wars.
He also said: The first represents earth, the second represents earth, the third represents fire, the fourth represents water, the fifth represents earth, the sixth represents wood, and the seventh represents gold.
He also said: The first star represents Qin, the second star represents Chu, the third star represents Liang, the fourth star represents Wu, the fifth star represents Yan, the sixth star represents Zhao, and the seventh star represents Qi.
The four stars in Kuidou are the residences of noble people, which are called heavenly principles.
The auxiliary star is accompanied by the Kaiyang star and is used to assist the fighting star to succeed. It is a symbol of the prime minister.
If the Big Dipper is bright, the country will be prosperous; if the auxiliary star is bright, the ministers will be strong.
The three stars to the south of the ladle handle and the three stars to the west of the first star of Kuidou are both called San Gong. They are the officials in charge of promoting moral education, coordinating the seven political affairs, and balancing yin and yang.
The six stars of Wenchang, in front of the Big Dipper Star, are the six mansions of heaven, responsible for soliciting opinions and planning the way of heaven.
The first star is called General, which is the general who establishes his power and establishes his power.
The third one is called the second general, who is the official of Shangshu.
The third one is called Noble Prime Minister, and it is Taichang who governs culture, education, rituals and music.
The fourth one is called Si Lu and Sizhong. It is Si Li who rewards meritorious service.
The fifth one is called Si Ming and Si Gui, and it is the Taishi official responsible for eliminating evil.
The sixth star is called Sikou, which is Dali's assistant in managing treasures.
The so-called number one refers to the star that originates from the Beidou Kuixing and is close to Naijing.
Bright and moist, neat in size, the auspiciousness from heaven will be endless.
The six stars to the north of Wenchang star are called inner-level stars, which are the steps for the emperor and the emperor.
The phase star is in the south of the Beidou.
The so-called Prime Minister is to command all officials and be in charge of the political and religious affairs of the country, to assist the emperor in ensuring peace and stability of the country and managing everything.
If this star is bright, it is auspicious.

summary:
summary line 6: The text continues with a detailed enumeration of constellations and their corresponding earthly regions and officials. For example, the Taiwei Yuan is the emperor's palace, with stars representing the five emperors, princes, and officials. The Langwei stars correspond to various court officials, and the Santai stars represent the three highest ministers. The text also describes constellations associated with military affairs, such as Tianqiang and Tianfu, and those related to agriculture, like the Basket and Qigong stars. The positions and functions of stars like Vega, Altair, and the Milky Way are explained, with each star's brightness and movement indicating specific events, such as war, famine, or the death of nobles. The text concludes with a list of constellations and their corresponding earthly regions, based on the works of various astronomers, including Chen Zhuo, Zhang Heng, and Zhuge Liang. This mapping links specific stars to provinces and commanderies in ancient China, such as Spica corresponding to Zheng and Yanzhou, and the Big Dipper to various states.

