Chunk 0: 
original: 
匈奴，其先夏后氏之苗裔，曰淳维。
唐、虞以上有山戎、猃允、薰粥，居于北边，随草畜牧而转移。
其畜之所多则马、牛、羊，其奇畜则橐佗、驴、骡、駃騠、騊駼驒奚。
逐水草迁徙，无城郭常居耕田之业，然亦各有分地。
无文书，以言语为约束。
儿能骑羊，引弓射鸟鼠，少长则射狐菟，肉食。
士力能弯弓，尽为甲骑。
其俗，宽则随畜田猎禽兽为生业，急则人习战攻以侵伐，其天性也。
其长兵则弓矢，短兵则刀铤。
利则进，不利则退，不羞遁走。
苟利所在，不知礼义。
自君王以下咸食畜肉，衣其皮革，被旃裘。
壮者食肥美，老者饮食其余。
贵壮健，贱老弱。
translation: 
The ancestor of the Xiongnu was a descendant of the Xiahou family, named Chunwei.
Before Yao, Yu and Shun of the Tang Dynasty, there were Shanrong, Yanyun, Xunzhou and other branches. They lived in the northern border of China and moved along with water, grass and livestock husbandry.
Most of the livestock raised are horses, cattle, and sheep. The exotic livestock include camels, donkeys, mules, Yaosao, colts, and Yixi.
They migrated in pursuit of water and grass. They did not have cities or agriculture for permanent residence, but they also had separate grazing lands.
There are no written books, only words are used for restraint and management.
When the men were young, they could ride sheep, draw bows and shoot mice, and learn archery. When they grew up, they could shoot foxes and rabbits, and mostly ate meat.
Men in their prime are strong and can bend bows and shoot arrows, so they serve as armored cavalry.
The living customs of the Huns were that when there was no war, they would graze and hunt birds and animals as a way of making a living; in case of emergency war, people would practice battle formations to attack and plunder others. This was the nature of the Huns.
Their long weapons are bows and arrows, and their short weapons are swords and spears.
When fighting, attack if things go well, retreat if things go wrong, and don't be ashamed to run away.
If there is a profit, then etiquette and justice will be ignored.
The Huns, from the king on down, all eat animal meat, wear animal hides, and wear felt fur.
Strong young people eat rich food, and old people eat leftovers.
Those who are strong are valued and those who are old and weak are looked down upon.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
父死，妻其后母；兄弟死，皆取其妻妻之。
其俗有名不讳而无字。
夏道衰，而公刘失其稷官，变于西戎，邑于豳。
其后三百有余岁，戎狄攻太王亶父，亶父亡走于岐下，豳人悉从亶父而邑焉，作周。
其后百有余岁，周西伯昌伐畎夷。
后十有余年，武王伐纣而营雒邑，复居于酆镐，放逐戎夷泾、洛之北，以时入贡，名曰荒服。
其后二百有余年，周道衰，而周穆王伐畎戎，得四白狼、四白鹿以归。
自是之后，荒服不至。
于是作《吕刑》之辟。
至穆王之孙懿王时，王室遂衰，戎狄交侵，暴虐中国。
中国被其苦，诗人始作，疾而歌之，曰： 靡室靡家，猃允之故 ； 岂不日戒，猃允孔棘 。
translation: 
When his father died, his son took his stepmother as his wife; when his brothers died, the surviving ones took their wives as wives.
The custom in terms of names is to have names, no taboos, and no epithet.
The Xia Dynasty declined, and Gong Liu, the ancestor of the Zhou Dynasty, lost his position as a farmer, so he reformed and changed the customs of Xirong and established a capital in Bin.
More than three hundred years later, Rong Di attacked Yifu, King Tai of Zhou, and Yifu fled to the foot of Qishan Mountain. The Bin people followed Yifu to build houses and settle down under Qishan Mountain, and began to establish the Zhou Kingdom.
More than a hundred years later, King Wen of Zhou Dynasty Xi Bo Jichang attacked Yi.
More than ten years later, King Wu of Zhou attacked and destroyed him, and then built Luoyi. King Wu returned to Fengjing and Haojing to live, and exiled the Rong and Yi to the north of Jinghe and Luohe, requiring them to contribute gifts on time, and called them "Huangfu".
After more than two hundred years, the Zhou Dynasty declined, and King Zhou Duo went to attack Zuo Xi and returned with four white wolves and four white deer.
From then on, people from Huangfu no longer paid tribute to the Zhou Dynasty.
The Zhou Dynasty formulated the law of "Lu Xing" at that time.
By the time of King Zhou Yi, the grandson of King Mu of Zhou, the royal family of Zhou declined, and Rong and Di repeatedly attacked and ravaged various countries in the Central Plains.
The people of the Central Plains were deeply affected, and poets began to sing poems that hated them: No house, no home, this is all because of Yan Yun; When will I not be on guard? Yan Yun's attack was really urgent.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
至懿王曾孙宣王，兴师命将以征伐之，诗人美大其功，曰： 薄伐猃允，至于太原 ； 出车彭彭 ， 城彼朔方 。
是时四夷宾服，称为中兴。
至于幽王，用宠姬褒姒之故，与申侯有隙。
申侯怒而与畎戎共攻杀幽王于丽山之下，遂取周之地，卤获而居于泾、渭之间，侵暴中国。
秦襄公救周，于是周平王去酆镐而东徙于雒邑。
当时秦襄公伐戎至支阝，始列为诸侯。
后六十有五年，而山戎越燕而伐齐，齐釐公与战于齐郊。后四十四年，而山戎伐燕。
燕告急齐，齐桓公北伐山戎，山戎走。
后二十余年，而戎翟至雒邑，伐周襄王，襄王出奔于郑之汜邑。
初，襄王欲伐郑，故取翟女为后，与翟共伐郑。
已而黜翟后，翟后怨，而襄王继母曰惠后，有子带，欲立之，于是惠后与翟后、子带为内应，开戎翟，戎翟以故得入，破逐襄王，而立子带为王。
于是戎翟或居于陆浑，东至于卫，侵盗尤甚。
周襄王既居外四年，乃使使告急于晋。
晋文公初立，欲修霸业，乃兴师伐戎翟，诛子带，迎内襄王子雒邑。
translation: 
When King Xuan, the great-grandson of King Yi, sent a general to lead an army to attack Yan Yun, the poet praised: The expedition against Yan Yun reached Taiyuan; the chariots were dispatched to build a city in the north.
At that time, the surrounding ethnic minorities all surrendered to the Zhou Dynasty, which was known as Zhongxing.
When King You of Zhou Dynasty arrived, he had a conflict with Queen Shen's father, Shen Hou, because he doted on his beautiful concubine Gui Si.
The Marquis of Shen was very angry and joined forces with Quan Rong to attack King You, killed him under Mount Li, occupied the land of the Zhou Dynasty, plundered and lived between the Jingwei River, and invaded and ravaged the people of the Central Plains.
Qin Xianggong sent troops to rescue the Dan Dynasty, so King Qiewen left; Yan and Guzhi moved eastward to the capital of Tao Dan.
At that time, Tong Saigong attacked Zuosheng and went all the way to Guishan. At this time, Tong Cai began to be named a prince.
Sixty-five years later, the Shanrong crossed Zangli again to attack Bianli. Duke Manli led his army to fight the Shanrong at the border of Bianxi. Forty-four years later, Shanrong attacked Yan again.
Yan State asked Qi State for help. Duke Huan of Qi led his army to attack Shanrong in the north, but Shanrong fled.
More than twenty years later, Rong Zhai went to Luoyi and attacked King Xiang of Zhou Dynasty. King Xiang fled to Panyi in Zheng State.
At first, King Xiang of Zhou wanted to attack the State of Zheng, so he married Rong Zhai's daughter as his queen and joined forces with Rong Zhai to attack the State of Zheng.
Soon after, Empress Zhai was deposed, and Empress Zhai was very resentful. King Xiang's stepmother was named Empress Hui, and she had a son named Zidai. Queen Hui wanted to make Zidai king. So Empress Hui, together with Empress Zhai and Ziying, responded internally and opened the city gate to welcome Rong Zhai. Rong Zhai therefore attacked the city, defeated and drove away King Xiang, and established Zidai as King of Zhou.
At that time, some Rong Zhai were already living in Luhun, and Shu Bian arrived in Wei State, and the invasion became even more severe.
King Xiang of Zhou had been wandering for four years, so he sent an envoy to Jin to ask for help.
Duke Wen of Jin had just ascended the throne and wanted to establish hegemony, so he sent troops to attack Rong Zhai, killed Zidai, and welcomed King Zhou Xiang back to Luoyi.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
当是时，秦晋为强国。
晋文公攘戎翟，居于西河圜、洛之间，号曰赤翟、白翟。
而秦穆公得由余，西戎八国服于秦。
故陇以西有绵诸、畎戎、狄獂之戎，在岐、梁、泾、漆之北有义渠、大荔、乌氏、朐衍之戎，而晋北有林胡、楼烦之戎，燕北有东胡、山戎。
各分散溪谷，自有君长，往往而聚者百有余戎，然莫能相一。
自是之后百有余年，晋悼公使魏绛和戎翟，戎翟朝晋。
后百有余年，赵襄子逾句注而破之，并代以临胡貉。
后与韩、魏共灭知伯，分晋地而有之，则赵有代、句注以北，而魏有西河、上郡，以与戎界边。
其后，义渠之戎筑城郭以自守，而秦稍蚕食之，至于惠王，遂拔义渠二十五城。
惠王伐魏，魏尽入西河及上郡于秦。
秦昭王时，义渠戎王与宣太后乱，有二子。宣太后诈而杀义渠戎王于甘泉，遂起兵伐灭义渠。
translation: 
At this time, Qin and Jin were very powerful.
Duke Wen of Jin attacked and expelled Rong Di. Rong Di lived between the Huan River and Luo River in the Xihe River, and they were called Chidi and Baidi.
Duke Mu of Qin got Yu Yu, and the eight kingdoms of Xirong surrendered to Qin.
Therefore, there are Rong tribes such as Mianzhu, Dengrong and Diyuan living in Longxi. To the north of Qishan, Liangshan, Jinghe and Qihe there are Rong tribes such as Yiqu, Dali, Wushi and Quyan. To the north of Jin there are Rong tribes such as Linhu and Loufan. To the north of Yan there are Donghu and Shanrong.
They live scattered in the valley, each with its own leader. There are more than a hundred Rong tribes living together, but they cannot be unified.
More than a hundred years later, the Duke of Jin sent Wei Jiang to negotiate peace with Rong Di, and Rong Di began to pay homage to the king of Jin.
More than a hundred years later, Tsai Xiangzi led his troops across Juzhu Mountain, conquered and annexed the state of Dai, and approached Hu Xian.
Later, Zhao Xiangzi, together with the Han and Wei families, destroyed Zhi, and the three families occupied the land of Jin. In this way, Zhao State occupied Daidi and the area north of Juzhu Mountain, while Wei State occupied Xihe and Shangjun, adjacent to the Rong people.
Later, the Rong people in Yiqu built cities for self-defense, while the Qin State slowly encroached on the land of Yiqu. When King Hui arrived, he captured twenty-five cities in Yiqu.
King Hui of Qin attacked the State of Wei, and the State of Wei dedicated all the areas of Xihe and Shangjun to the State of Qin.
During the reign of King Zhao of Qin, King Yiqurong had an affair with Queen Mother Xuan and gave birth to two sons. Queen Mother Xuan deceived King Yiqurong and killed him in Ganquan, and then raised troops to attack and eliminate Yiqu.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
于是秦有陇西、北地、上郡，筑长城以距胡。
而赵武灵王亦变俗胡服，习骑射，北破林胡、楼烦，自代并阴山下至高阙为塞，而置云中、雁门、代郡。
其后燕有贤将秦开，为质于胡，胡甚信之。
归而袭破东胡，东胡却千余里。
与荆轲刺秦王秦舞阳者，开之孙也。
燕亦筑长城，自造阳至襄平，置上谷、渔阳、右北平、辽西、辽东郡以距胡。
当是时，冠带战国七，而三国边于匈奴。
其后赵将李牧时，匈奴不敢入赵边。
后秦灭六国，而始皇帝使蒙恬将数十万之众北击胡，悉收河南地，因河为塞，筑四十四县城临河，徙適戍以充之。
而通直道，自九原至云阳，因边山险，堑溪谷，可缮者缮之，起临洮至辽东万余里。
又度河据阳山北假中。
当是时，东胡强而月氏盛。
translation: 
Therefore, the Qin State occupied Longxi, Beidi, and Shangjun, and built the Great Wall to resist the Hu people.
King Wuling of Zhao also mutated the customs of his own country, wore the clothes of the barbarians, learned horseback riding and archery, and attacked Linhu and Loufan to the north. From Daidi along the foothills of Yinshan Mountain to Gaoque, he used it as his frontier fortress. And established Yunzhong County, Yanmen County and Dai County.
Later, a wise general from Yan State, Qin Kai, served as a hostage in the Hu area. The Hu people trusted him very much.
After returning, he led his troops to attack Ding Donghu, and Shu Hu retreated for more than a thousand miles.
Qin Wuyang, who later assassinated Qin Shihuang with Jing Ke, was Qin Kai's grandson.
The State of Yan also built the Great Wall, from Zaoyang to Xiangping, and set up Shanggu, Yuyang, Youbeiping, Liaoxi, and Liaodong counties to resist the Hu people.
At that time, three of the seven highly civilized countries of the Warring States Period bordered on the Xiongnu.
Later, when General Li Mu of the State of Zhao was there, the Huns did not dare to invade the border of the State of Zhao.
Later, Qin Shihuang destroyed the six kingdoms and sent General Meng Tian to lead an army of hundreds of thousands to the north to attack the Xiongnu. He completely recovered the area south of the Yellow River. Using the Yellow River as a fortress, he built forty-four cities on the edge of the Yellow River and sent those who were punished for their crimes to guard the border to live there.
They also built a straight road from Jiuyuan to Yunyang; they also built the Great Wall along the dangerous chasms of the mountains and along the valleys, and repaired the places that could be repaired. It was more than 10,000 miles from Lintao to Liaodong.
Later, the Qin State crossed the Yellow River and occupied the northern false area of ​​​​Yangshan.
At that time, both Shuhu and Yuezhi were very powerful.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
匈奴单于曰头曼，头曼不胜秦，北徙。
十有余年而蒙恬死，诸侯畔秦，中国扰乱，诸秦所徙適边者皆复去，于是匈奴得宽，复稍度河南与中国界于故塞。单于有太子，名曰冒顿。
后有爱阏氏，生少子，头曼欲废冒顿而立少子，乃使冒顿质于月氏。
冒顿既质，而头曼急击月氏。
月氏欲杀冒顿，冒顿盗其善马，骑亡归。
头曼以为壮，令将万骑。
冒顿乃作鸣镝，习勒其骑射，令曰： 鸣镝所射而不悉射者斩。
行猎兽，有不射鸣镝所射辄斩之。
已而，冒顿以鸣镝自射善马，左右或莫敢射，冒顿立斩之。
居顷之，复以鸣镝自射其爱妻，左右或颇恐，不敢射，复斩之。
顷之，冒顿出猎，以鸣镝射单于善马，左右皆射之。
于是冒顿知其左右可用，从其父单于头曼猎，以鸣镝射头曼，其左右皆随鸣镝而射杀头曼，尽诛其后母与弟及大臣不听从者。
于是冒顿自立为单于。
冒顿既立，时东胡强，闻冒顿杀父自立，乃使使谓冒顿曰： 欲得头曼时号千里马。
冒顿问群臣，群臣皆曰： 此匈奴宝马也，勿予。
冒顿曰： 奈何与人邻国爱一马乎？
遂与之。
顷之，东胡以为冒顿畏之，使使谓冒顿曰： 欲得单于一阏氏。
冒顿复问左右，左右皆怒曰： 东胡无道，乃求阏氏！
translation: 
The Xiongnu Chanyu was named Touman. Touman could not resist Qin, so he moved north.
More than ten years later, Meng Tian died. The descendants of the original princes rebelled against the Qin State. The Central Plains area was in chaos. Those who had been exiled by the Qin Dynasty to guard the border left. As a result, the Xiongnu's situation improved and they slowly crossed the Yellow River. In the south, they were adjacent to the Central Plains with their original border fortress. Shan Yuli had a prince named Maodun.
Later, the Chanyu's favored Ban clan gave birth to a son. Chanyu Touman wanted to depose the crown prince Mao Dun and make his younger son the crown prince, so he sent Mao Dun to Yuezhi as a hostage.
After Maodun arrived at Yuezhi and became a hostage, Touman Chanyu immediately sent troops to attack Yuezhi.
Yuezhi wanted to kill Mao Dun, so Mao Dun stole Yuezhi's good horse and rode it back to the Huns.
Touman Chanyu thought that Mao Dun was brave, so he asked him to lead 10,000 cavalry.
Mao Dun then made the Ming Dy, or ringing arrow, and trained and constrained his cavalry in archery. He ordered them to say: If anyone does not follow and shoot the thing shot by my Ming Dy, he will be killed.
Mao Dun led his men out for hunting. Anyone who did not follow the target shot by She Ming Dy was immediately killed.
Soon, Mao Dun shot his own good horse with Wu Dy. Some people around him did not dare to follow suit, so Mao Dun immediately killed these people.
A few days later, Mao Dun himself shot his beloved wife with a hammer. Some people around him were very frightened and did not dare to shoot arrows. Mao Dun killed these people again.
Soon, Mao Dun led his men out for hunting and shot Shanyu's fine horse with a wu-dy, and everyone around him followed suit.
So Mao Dun knew that the people around him could be used for his own purposes. When he went hunting with his father Touman Chanyu, he shot Touman with a hammer. The people around him followed the lead and shot Touman, killing the Chanyu. Mao Dun also killed his stepmother, his younger brother, and all the ministers who disobeyed him.
So Maodun established himself as Chanyu.
When Mao Dun established himself as a chanyu, Dong Hu was very powerful. When Cambodian Hu heard that Mao Dun killed his father and established himself, he sent an envoy to Mao Dun and said: Dong Hu wants to get Tou Man, a good horse known as a thousand-mile horse.
Mao Dun asked the ministers, and they all said: "This is the Xiongnu's BMW and cannot be given to them."
Mao Dun said: How can we be neighbors and yet pity a horse?
So he gave the thousand-mile horse to Donghu.
Soon, Shu Hu thought that Mao Dun was afraid of him, so he sent an envoy to Mao Dun and said: Shu Hu wants to get Shan Yu, a Ban clan.
Mao Dun asked the ministers again, and the people around him were very angry and said: "The Shu Hu people are unreasonable and want Banshi from us!"


Chunk 6: 
original: 
请击之。
冒顿曰： 奈何与人邻国爱一女子乎？
遂取所爱阏氏予东胡。
东胡王愈骄，西侵。
与匈奴中间有弃地莫居千余里，各居其边为瓯脱。
东胡使使谓冒顿曰： 匈奴所与我界瓯脱外弃地，匈奴不能至也，吾欲有之。
冒顿问群臣，或曰： 此弃地，予之。
于是冒顿大怒，曰： 地者，国之本也，奈何予人！
诸言与者，皆斩之。
冒顿上马，令国中有后者斩，遂东袭击东胡。
东胡初轻冒顿，不为备。
及冒顿以兵至，大破灭东胡王，虏其民众、畜产。
既归，西击走月氏，南并楼烦、白羊河南王，悉复收秦所使蒙恬所夺匈奴地者，与汉关胡河南塞，至朝那、肤施，遂侵燕、代。
是时，汉方与项羽相距，中国罢于兵革，以故冒顿得自强，控弦之士三十余万。
translation: 
Please send troops to attack them.
Mao Dun said: How can we be neighbors and yet begrudge a woman?
So he gave his favorite Pi family to Ding Donghu.
King Shuhu became more arrogant and invaded westward.
There is an uninhabited wasteland between the Xiongnu and Donghu, which is more than a thousand miles away. The Xiongnu and Donghu each live on one side and set up observation posts.
Shuhu sent an envoy to Modu and said: The Huns cannot reach the deserted land guarded by the observation post on the border with us, and we want to occupy it.
Mao Dun asked the ministers, and some ministers said: "This is abandoned land, give it to them."
After hearing this, Mo Dun was furious and said: Land is the foundation of the country, how can you give it to others!
Those who said they could give land to Shuhu were killed.
Maodun mounted his horse and ordered his countrymen to kill anyone who retreated, so he went east to attack Donghu.
At first Shu Hu looked down upon Mao Dun and took no precautions.
When Mao Dun arrived with his troops, he completely defeated and eliminated King Donghu, captured the people of Ding Donghu, and plundered their livestock and products.
After returning, he sent troops to the west to drive away the Yuezhi, and to the south he annexed Loufan and the Aries King of Henan. He also completely recovered the Xiongnu territory that Qin sent Meng Tian to invade. Using the original Henan fortress as the boundary with the Han Dynasty, he reached Chaona and Fushi, and then invaded Yan and Dai.
At that time, Liu Han was fighting Xiang Yu, and the Central Plains was exhausted by the war, so Maodun was able to become strong and strong, with more than 300,000 warriors who could bend bows, ride and shoot.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
自淳维以至头曼千有余岁，时大时小，别散分离，尚矣，其世传不可得而次。
然至冒顿，而匈奴最强大，尽服从北夷，而南与诸夏为敌国，其世姓官号可得而记云。
单于姓挛鞮氏，其国称之曰 撑犁孤涂单于 。
匈奴谓天为 撑犁 ，谓子为 孤涂 ，单于者，广大之貌也，言其象天单于然也。
置左右贤王、左右谷蠡、左右大将、左右大都尉、左右大当户、左右骨都侯。
匈奴谓贤曰 屠耆 ，故尝以太子为左屠耆王。
自左右贤王以下至当户，大者万余骑，小者数千，凡二十四长，立号曰 万骑 。
其大臣皆世官。
呼衍氏、兰氏，其后有须卜氏，此三姓，其贵种也。
诸左王将居东方，直上谷以东，接秽貉、朝鲜；右王将居西方，直上郡以西，接氐、羌；而单于庭直代、云中。
translation: 
It was more than a thousand years from Chunwei to Touman. Sometimes the Xiongnu were large, sometimes small, and their residences were scattered and separated. They were so long ago that their lineage inheritance cannot be arranged one by one in order.
However, when Maodun became the Chanyu, when the Huns were at their most powerful, all the ethnic minorities in the north were subject to his rule and became enemies of the Chinese ethnic groups in the south. It was only then that its lineage, surnames and official titles could be recorded.
The Chanyu's surname was Lyuta, and their people called the king "Pengli Gutu Chanyu".
The Huns called the sky "Plough Holder" and the son "Gu Tu". The name "Chanyu" means vast. This name means that the Chanyu is as big as the sky.
The Xiongnu had left and right Xian kings, left and right Guli kings, left and right generals, left and right captains, left and right Danghu, and left and right Guduhous.
The Huns called the wise "Tu Qi", so the prince often served as the Zuo Tu Qi King.
From King Youyouxian down to Danghu, the older ones led more than ten thousand cavalry, while the younger ones led thousands of cavalry. There were twenty-four leaders in total, and they were given the title of Ten Thousand Cavalrymen.
Their ministers all have hereditary official positions.
The Huyan family, the Lan family, and later the Xubu family, these three surnames were the noble families of the Xiongnu.
Those left kings and left generals all live in the east, facing the area bounded by Shanggu and Shu, which connects Hui Raccoon and North Korea; those of right kings and right generals live in the west, facing west of Shangjun, bordering the Di and Qiang; and the royal court of the Shanyu faces Daijun and Yunzhong areas.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
各有分地，逐水草移徙。
而左右贤王、左右谷蠡最大国，左右骨都侯辅政。
诸二十四长，亦各自置千长、百长、什长、裨小王、相、都尉、当户、且渠之属。
岁正月，诸长小会单于庭，祠。
五月，大会龙城，祭其先、天地、鬼神。
秋，马肥，大会蹛林，课校人畜计。
其法，拔刃尺者死，坐盗者没入其家；有罪，小者轧，大者死。
狱久者不满十日，一国之囚不过数人。
而单于朝出营，拜日之始生，夕拜月。
其坐，长左而北向。
日上戊己。
其送死，有棺椁、金银、衣裳，而无封树丧服；近幸臣妾从死者，多至数十百人。
translation: 
They each have their own area and move with the quality of the water and grass.
The left and right Xianwang and the left and right Guli led the largest tribe, and the left and right Guduhou assisted in government affairs.
The twenty-four leaders also each have official positions such as Qianchang, Baichang, Shichang, Xiaowang, Xiang, Duwei, Duhu, and Qiequ.
In the first month of each year, the leaders of various tribes held a small gathering in the court of Chanyu and held a spring festival.
Every May, a grand gathering is held in Longcheng to worship their ancestors, heaven and earth, ghosts and gods.
Every autumn, when the grass is yellow and the horses are fat, a meeting is held in the hoof forest to count the population and livestock for tax collection.
Their law is that anyone who draws a knife and wounds someone within one foot shall be put to death; a person who commits the crime of stealing shall have his entire family's property confiscated; if he commits a crime, his bones shall be crushed for minor crimes, and his bones shall be crushed for serious crimes.
The length of jail time is no more than ten days, and there are only a few prisoners in jail across the country.
Chanyu walked out of his tent every morning and worshiped the rising sun; in the evening he worshiped the moon.
Their rules for sitting up are: the elder is on the left, facing north.
Advocate Wu said and Ji said.
Their funeral customs are: they are buried with coffins, gold and silver, and clothes, but there are no tombs, tomb trees, and mourning systems. If a Chanyu dies, dozens or hundreds of his close concubines will be buried.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
举事常随月，盛壮以攻战，月亏则退兵。
其攻战，斩首虏赐一卮酒，而所得卤获因以予之，得人以为奴婢。
故其战，人人自为趋利，善为诱兵以包敌。
故其逐利，如鸟之集；其困败，瓦解云散矣。
战而扶轝死者，尽得死者家财。
后北服浑窳、屈射、丁零、隔昆、新之国。
于是匈奴贵人大臣皆服，以冒顿为贤。
是时，汉初定，徙韩王信于代，都马邑。
匈奴大攻围马邑，韩信降匈奴。
匈奴得信，因引兵南逾句注，攻太原，至晋阳下。
高帝自将兵往击之。
会冬大寒雨雪，卒之堕指者十二三，于是冒顿阳败走，诱汉兵。
汉兵逐击冒顿，冒顿匿其精兵，见其羸弱，于是汉悉兵三十二万，北逐之。
translation: 
The Huns often raised troops to fight according to the waxing and waning of the moon. They attacked when the moon was full and retreated when the moon was waning.
When they fought, whoever beheaded the enemy would be rewarded with a jug of wine, and the spoils captured would belong to him, and the captured people would be made slaves.
Therefore, when they fight, everyone moves forward bravely for the sake of gain, and is good at luring the enemy into the encirclement and then annihilating them.
Therefore, when they pursue interests, they fly together like birds; when they are in danger and collapse, they fall apart and disperse.
Whoever transports the deceased back during the war will own all the property of the deceased.
Later, Maodun Chanyu conquered the northern countries of Hunyu, Qushe, Dingling, Gekun, Xinhua and other countries.
At that time, the Hun nobles and ministers all admired Mo Dun and thought he was wise and talented.
At this time, the Han Dynasty had just settled down and moved King Han Xin to Daidi and established the capital in Mayi.
The Huns laid siege to Mayi, and Han Xin surrendered to the Huns.
After the Xiongnu got Han Xin, they led their troops southward across Juzhu Mountain, attacked Taiyuan, and reached the city of Jinyang.
Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty personally led his troops to fight against the Xiongnu.
It happened that the winter was very cold and it snowed heavily. Two or three out of ten soldiers had their fingers frozen off, so Mao Dun pretended to be defeated and escaped to lure the Han army.
The Han army pursued Mao Dun, but Mao Dun hid his elite soldiers and exposed the old and weak soldiers. So the Han army totaled 320,000 men, most of whom were infantry, and pursued Maodun northward.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
高帝先至平城，步兵未尽到，冒顿纵精兵三十余万骑围高帝于白登，七日，汉兵中外不得相救饷。
匈奴骑，其西方尽白，东方尽駹，北方尽骊，南方尽骍马。
高帝乃使使间厚遗阏氏，阏氏乃谓冒顿曰： 两主不相困。
今得汉地，单于终非能居之。
且汉主有神，单于察之。
冒顿与韩信将王黄、赵利期，而兵久不来，疑其与汉有谋，亦取阏氏之言，乃开围一角。
于是高皇帝令士皆持满傅矢外乡，从解角直出，得与大军合，而冒顿遂引兵去。
汉亦引兵罢，使刘敬结和亲之约。
是后，韩信为匈奴将，及赵利、王黄等数背约，侵盗代、雁门、云中。
居无几何，陈豨反，与韩信合谋击代。
汉使樊哙往击之，复收代、雁门、云中郡县，不出塞。
是时，匈奴以汉将数率众往降，故冒顿常往来侵盗代地。
于是高祖患之，乃使刘敬奉宗室女翁主为单于阏氏，岁奉匈奴絮缯酒食物各有数，约为兄弟以和亲，冒顿乃少止。
后燕王卢绾复后，率其党且万人降匈奴，往来苦上谷以东，终高祖世。
孝惠、高后时，冒顿浸骄，乃为书，使使遗高后曰： 孤偾之君，生于沮泽之中，长于平野牛马之域，数至边境，愿游中国。
translation: 
Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty first led his troops to pursue Pingcheng, but not all the infantry arrived. Maodun sent more than 300,000 elite cavalry to besiege Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty at Baishan Mountain in Pingcheng for seven days. The desert army inside and outside could not provide food and grass to each other.
The Huns' cavalry was all white horses in the west, green horses in the east, black horses in the north, and red horses in the south.
Emperor Gao sent an envoy to secretly send generous gifts to the Min clan, and the Men clan said to Mao Dun: The coaches of both sides should not be forced.
Now that we have obtained Han territory, Shanyu you will not be able to live here after all.
Besides, the Lord of Han is blessed by the gods, so Shanyu, you should consider it carefully.
Mao Dun had made an appointment with Han Xin's generals Wang Huang and Cao Li, but the troops of Wang Huang and Bao Li were still late in arriving. Mao Dun suspected that they were conspiring with the King of Han, so he listened to Ban's words and opened a corner of the encirclement.
So Emperor Gao ordered the soldiers to draw their bows fully, nock their arrows, face outwards, and rush out from the corner of the siege. Finally they joined the army, and Mao Dun led his army to retreat.
The King of Han also retreated with his troops and sent Liu Jing to make peace with the Xiongnu.
After that, Han Xin became the general of the Xiongnu, and together with Zaili, Wang Huang and others, he repeatedly betrayed the Han-Hungarian peace treaty and invaded Daijun, Yanmenjun and Yunzhongjun.
Soon after, Chen Xi rebelled against the Han Dynasty and conspired with Han Xin to attack Dai County.
The Han Dynasty sent Fan Sha to lead his troops to attack them, and recovered Daijun, Yanmenjun, Yunzhongjun and other counties without leaving the frontier to fight.
At that time, the Xiongnu generals of the Han Dynasty led their troops to surrender many times, so Maodun often came and went to invade Dai.
Emperor Gaozu was deeply worried, so he sent Liu Jing to send the royal daughter to the Que family who pretended to be a princess and sent a certain amount of silk floss, silk silk, wine and food to the Xiongnu every year.
Later, King Lu Wan of Yan rebelled against the Han Dynasty and led nearly 10,000 of his associates to surrender to the Huns. They came and went to harass the people in the Shanggu Yisu area until the death of Emperor Gaozu.
During the reign of Emperor Xiaohui and Empress Dowager Lu, Maodun gradually became arrogant and even wrote a letter and sent an envoy to Empress Lu, saying: I am a lonely and helpless monarch. I was born in a humid swamp and grew up in a vast place where cattle and horses are grazed. I have been to the border many times, hoping to visit the Central Plains.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
陛下独立，孤偾独居。
两主不乐，无以自虞，愿以所有，易其所无。
高后大怒，召丞相平及樊哙、季布等，议斩其使者，发兵而击之。
樊哙曰： 臣愿得十万众，横行匈奴中。
问季布，布曰： 哙可斩也！
前陈豨反于代，汉兵三十二万，哙为上将军，时匈奴围高帝于平城，哙不能解围。
天下歌之曰： 平城之下亦诚苦，七日不食，不能彀弩。
今歌吟之声未绝，伤痍者甫起，而哙欲摇动天下，妄言以十万众横行，是面谩也。
且夷狄璧如禽兽，得其善言不足喜，恶言不足怒也。 高后曰： 善。
令大谒者张泽报书曰： 单于不忘弊邑，赐之以书，弊邑恐惧。
退而自图，年老气衰，发齿堕落，行步失度，单于过听，不足以自污。
弊邑无罪，宜在见赦。
translation: 
Your Majesty, you are an independent king, but you are also lonely and helpless, living alone.
We two monarchs were very unhappy and had nothing to entertain us. I hope that both of us can exchange what we have for what we don’t have.
Empress Dowager Lu was very angry after reading the letter. She summoned the prime ministers Chen Ping, Fan Sha and Ji Bu to discuss killing the Xiongnu envoys and sending troops to attack the Xiongnu.
Fan Sha said: I am willing to lead an army of 100,000 people to attack the Xiongnu territory.
Empress Lu asked Ji Bu, and Ji Bu said, "You can kill Fan!"
In the past, when Chen Xi rebelled in Dai, there were 320,000 Han soldiers, and Fan Sha was the general. At that time, the Huns besieged Emperor Gao in Pingcheng, but Fan Sha could not break through the siege.
People all over the world sang: It’s too hard under a flat city!
After seven days without food, the soldiers could not even draw their bows. Now the sound of people singing is still in their ears, and the wounded people have just stood up. But Fan Sha wants to shake the world, and talks nonsense about bringing a hundred thousand soldiers to the Xiongnu to go on a rampage. This is deceiving the emperor in person.
Moreover, these ethnic minorities are like animals. They don’t deserve to be happy when they hear good things about them, and they don’t deserve to get angry when they hear bad words. Queen Mother Lu said: That's fine.
So he ordered the great emissary Zhang Ze to write a letter in return, saying: The Chanyu has not forgotten our ruined country and has rewarded us with letters. We are very afraid.
After retiring from the imperial court, I thought to myself, I am old and weak, my hair and teeth have fallen out, and I can't walk steadily. Shanyu has heard others say wrong things, and it is not worth the humiliation that Shanyu has lowered and insulted me.
Our country has done nothing wrong and should be forgiven.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
窃有御车二乘，马二驷，以奉常驾。
冒顿得书，复使使来谢曰： 未尝闻中国礼义，陛下幸而赦之。
因献马，遂和亲。
至孝文即位，复修和亲。
其三年夏，匈奴右贤王入居河南地为寇，于是文帝下诏曰： 汉与匈奴约为昆弟，无侵害边境，所以输遗匈奴甚厚。
今右贤王离其国，将众居河南地，非常故。
往来入塞，捕杀吏卒，驱侵上郡保塞蛮夷，令不得居其故。
陵轹边吏，入盗，甚骜无道，非约也。
其发边吏车骑八万诣高奴，遣丞相灌婴将击右贤王。
右贤王走出塞，文帝幸太原。
是时，济北王反，文帝归，罢丞相击胡之兵。
其明年，单于遗汉书曰： 天所立匈奴大单于敬问皇帝无恙。
translation: 
I have two chariots and eight horses for you to ride on.
When Mao Dun received a reply, he sent an envoy to apologize and said: "We have never heard of the etiquette of the Central Plains. Fortunately, Your Majesty forgives us."
The Xiongnu offered horses, and the Han and the Huns made peace.
After Emperor Xiaowen ascended the throne, the marriage was completed.
In the summer of the third year, King Youxian of the Xiongnu entered the area south of the Yellow River to harass and invade, so Emperor Wen issued an edict saying: The Han Dynasty and the Xiongnu are brothers and do not invade each other's borders. The Han Dynasty sent a lot of silk, silk, food and other items to the Xiongnu.
Now King Youxian has left his country and led his troops to invade our land south of the Yellow River. This is inconsistent with the previous boundaries.
The people of King Youxian came and went into our Khotan fortress, hunting down our officials and soldiers, and driving away and violating our ethnic minorities who lived in Shangjun to protect the frontier fortress, so that they could not live in their original places.
匈奴人欺凌殴打我们边地的官吏，进行偷盗，非常傲慢无道，这不是和约所要求的样子。
He ordered the dispatch of 80,000 chariots and cavalry from the border areas to Gaonu, and sent Prime Minister Guan Ying to lead them to attack King Youxian.
King Youxian was driven away and escaped from the frontier fortress. Emperor Wen went to Taiyuan to inspect.
At this time, the King of Jibei rebelled, and Emperor Wen returned to the capital and stopped the prime minister's military operations against the Huns.
The next year, the Chanyu sent a letter to the Han Dynasty saying: The great Chanyu of the Xiongnu established by heaven asked the emperor if he was safe and well.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
前时皇帝言和亲事，称书意合欢。
汉边吏侵侮右贤王，右贤王不请，听后义卢侯难支等计，与汉吏相恨，绝二主之约，离昆弟之亲。
皇帝让书再至，发使以书报，不来，汉使不至。
汉以其故不和，邻国不附。
今以少吏之败约，故罚右贤王，使至西方求月氏击之。
以天之福，吏卒良，马力强，以灭夷月氏，尽斩杀降下定之。
楼兰、乌孙、呼揭及其旁二十六国皆已为匈奴。
诸引弓之民并为一家，北州以定。
愿寝兵休士养马，除前事，复故约，以安边民，以应古始，使少者得成其长，老者得安其处，世世平乐。
未得皇帝之志，故使郎中系虖浅奉书请，献橐佗一，骑马二，驾二驷。
皇帝即不欲匈奴近塞，则且诏吏民远舍。
使者至，即遣之。
六月中，来至新望之地。
书至，汉议击与和亲孰便，公卿皆曰： 单于新破月氏，乘胜，不可击也。
且得匈奴地，泽卤非可居也，和亲甚便。
translation: 
The emperor's previous words about the marriage were consistent with the meaning of the letter, and both parties were very happy.
The border officials of the Han Dynasty invaded and insulted King You Xian. The King You did not ask me for instructions, but followed the advice of Houyi Luhou Nanzhi, and became enemies with the officials of the Han Dynasty, thus severing the peace treaty between our two monarchs and severing the brotherhood between the two countries.
Emperor, you sent two letters reproaching us. I sent an envoy to answer the letter, but the envoy did not return, and the envoy from the Han Dynasty did not come to the Xiongnu.
The Han Dynasty did not make peace with us for this reason, and we, as neighboring countries, were not allowed to surrender.
Now because the minor officials broke the peace treaty, I punished King Youxian and sent him to the west to find the Yuezhi to attack.
Thanks to God's blessing, the soldiers were excellent and the horses were strong, the Yuezhi had been eliminated, and they were completely killed and pacified.
Loulan, Wusun, Hujie and the twenty-six neighboring countries have all become part of the Xiongnu.
The nomadic peoples have become one family, and the north has been pacified.
I hope to stop the war, allow the soldiers to rest, herd the horses, eliminate the unpleasant things in the past, restore the past peace treaty, calm the border people, inherit the tradition of friendship between the Hungarian and Han peoples since ancient times, enable the young to grow up, enable the elderly to live and work in peace and contentment, and live in peace and joy from generation to generation.
I don't know what you mean, Emperor, so I sent my doctor Xie Kuqian to ask for an audience with a letter, and presented a camel, two mounts, and eight chariot horses.
If the emperor does not want the Huns to get close to the border fortress, then I will order the officials and people to live away from the border fortress.
When the messengers arrive, please send them back immediately.
In mid-June, the Huns envoys came to Xinwangzao and sent letters to the court.
When the Han Dynasty discussed whether it would be more advantageous to attack the Xiongnu or make peace with them, the ministers all said: The Chanyu has just conquered the Yueshi and is on the verge of victory, so we cannot fight with them.
Moreover, even if the Xiongnu captured the land, it was all saline-alkali land and uninhabitable, so it was very convenient to get married.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
汉许之。
孝文前六年，遗匈奴书曰： 皇帝敬问匈奴大单于无恙。
使系虖浅遗朕书，云 愿寝兵休士，除前事，复故约，以安边民，世世平乐 ，朕甚嘉之。
此古圣王之志也。
汉与匈奴约为兄弟，所以遗单于甚厚。
背约离兄弟之亲者，常在匈奴。
然右贤王事已在赦前，勿深诛。
单于若称书意，明告诸吏，使无负约，有信，敬如单于书。
使者言单于自将并国有功，甚苦兵事。
服绣袷绮衣、长襦、锦袍各一，比疏一，黄金饬具带一，黄金犀毗一，绣十匹，锦二十匹，赤绨、绿缯各四十匹，使中大夫意、谒者令肩遗单于。
后顷之，冒顿死，子稽粥立，号曰老上单于。
老上稽粥单于初立，文帝复遣宗人女翁主为单于阏氏，使宦者燕人中行说傅翁主。
translation: 
So the Han Dynasty agreed to Shan Yu's request.
In the sixth year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, a letter sent by the Han Dynasty to the Xiongnu said: The emperor of the Han Dynasty respectfully asked the Xiongnu whether Da Danyu was safe and sound.
Your faction, Mo Qian, sent me a letter, saying: I hope to stop the war, recuperate the soldiers, eliminate previous misunderstandings, and restore our original peace treaty, so as to stabilize the border people and ensure peace and happiness from generation to generation. I really appreciate what you said.
This was the intention and ambition of the ancient holy kings.
The Han Dynasty and the Xiongnu were brothers, and the gifts given to Shanyu were very generous.
The responsibility for betraying an alliance and alienating brothers from family ties generally lies with the Huns.
However, what happened to King Youxian happened before the amnesty, so please don't pursue and blame him too much.
If Shan Yu can do what he said in the letter and tell the officials clearly so that they do not bear the covenant and insist on integrity, we will respectfully follow what Shan Yu said in his book.
The envoy said that Shanyu personally led the army to fight and made great contributions to unifying other countries. The battle was very hard.
Therefore, there are now one royal embroidered robe, one long coat, one brocade robe, one golden ornament, one gold-embellished waist belt, one gold belt hook, ten pieces of colored silk, twenty pieces of brocade, forty pieces each of red silk and green silk.
Shortly afterwards, Maodun Chanyu died, and his son Jizhu succeeded to the throne, known as Laoshang Chanyu.
Shortly after the Chanyu of Laoshang Jizhou came to the throne, Emperor Wen sent a daughter of the royal family to pretend to be a princess to be the Banshi of Shanyu, and sent eunuchs and Zhongxing from Yandi to assist the princess.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
说不欲行，汉强使之。
说曰： 必我也，为汉患者 。
中行说既至，因降单于，单于爱幸之。
初，单于好汉缯絮食物，中行说曰： 匈奴人众不能当汉之一郡，然所以强之者，以衣食异，无仰于汉。
今单于变俗好汉物，汉物不过什二，则匈奴尽归于汉矣。
其得汉絮缯，以驰草棘中，衣裤皆裂弊，以视不如旃裘坚善也；得汉食物皆去之，以视不如重酪之便美也。
于是说教单于左右疏记，以计识其人众畜牧。
汉遗单于书，以尺一牍，辞曰 皇帝敬问匈奴大单于无恙 ，所以遗物及言语云云。
中行说令单于以尺二寸牍，及印封皆令广长大，倨骜其辞曰 天地所生、日月所置匈奴大单于，敬问汉皇帝无恙 ，所以遗物言语亦云云。
汉使或言匈奴俗贱老，中行说穷汉使曰： 而汉俗屯戍从军当发者，其亲岂不自夺温厚肥美赍送饮食行者乎？ 汉使曰： 然。
说曰： 匈奴明以攻战为事，老弱不能斗，故以其肥美饮食壮健以自卫，如此父子各得相保，何以言匈奴轻老也？
汉使曰： 匈奴父子同穹庐卧。父死，妻其后母；兄弟死，尽妻其妻。
translation: 
Bank of China said he didn't want to go, so the Han Dynasty forced him to go.
Bank of China said: If I must go, I will harm the Han Dynasty.
When Bank of China talked about that package, he surrendered to Shanyu, who liked him very much.
At the beginning, Chanyu loved the silk, silk cotton and food of the Han Dynasty. Zhongxing said to Chanyu: The Xiongnu people are not as strong as a county in the Han Dynasty, but they are very powerful. The reason is that they are different from the Han people in dressing and eating. There is nothing to rely on the Han Dynasty.
Now if you change the customs of the Xiongnu and like the things of the Han Dynasty, the Han Dynasty will only give two-tenths of the Xiongnu's total number, and you will get all the Xiongnu tribes.
I hope you will wear the cotton and silk from the Han Dynasty and run in the weeds and thorns, so that the clothes and pants will be cracked and tattered to show that they are not as strong as felt fur; and throw away all the food from the Han Dynasty to show that it is not as convenient and delicious as cheese.
So the Bank of China taught the people around Shan Yu how to count their people and livestock in writing and counting.
The Han Dynasty sent letters to the Shanyu, using wooden slips one foot and one inch long. The greetings at the beginning were: "The emperor wishes to ask the Xiongnu that the Shanyu is safe and well", the things used to send each other, and some greetings, etc.
The Bank of China preached that the Chanyu wrote a letter to the Emperor of Han using a wooden slip one foot and two inches long. The seal and seal of the letter were very long and large, and the words were arrogant. He said that the Xiongnu was born from heaven and earth and was placed by the sun and the moon. The great Chanyu asked Emperor Mo that he was well, as well as the gifts and words he gave, etc.
Some envoys from the Han Dynasty said that the Huns had bad customs and looked down upon the elderly. The Bank of China questioned the envoys of the Han Dynasty and said: According to the custom of your Han Dynasty, for those who are about to guard the border and join the army, don't their parents give up warm clothes and delicious food to provide for those who are about to set off? The envoy from the Han Dynasty said: That's right.
Bank of China said: The Huns regard attacking and fighting as their business. This is very clear. The old and weak cannot participate in the battle, so they give rich and good food to the strong people to eat in order to defend themselves. In this way, both father and son can be safe and sound. How can we say that the Huns despise the elderly?
The envoy of the Han Dynasty said: The Xiongnu father and his son lived in a tent. When the father died, the son married his stepmother; when a brother died, the surviving brothers married the deceased's wife as their own wives.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
无冠带之节、阙庭之礼。
中行说曰： 匈奴之俗，食畜肉，饮其汁，衣其皮；畜食草饮水，随时转移。
故其急则人习骑射，宽则人乐无事。
约束径，易行；君臣简，可久。
一国之政犹一体也。
父兄死，则妻其妻，恶种姓之失也。
故匈奴虽乱，必立宗种。
今中国虽阳不取其父兄之妻，亲属益疏则相杀，至到易姓，皆从此类也。
且礼义之弊，上下交怨，而室屋之极，生力屈焉。
夫力耕桑以求衣食，筑城郭以自备，故其民急则不习战攻，缓则罢于作业，嗟土室之人，顾无喋喋占占，冠固何当！
translation: 
And there is no particularity about hats and belts and court etiquette.
BOC said: The custom of the Huns is to eat the meat of livestock, drink its milk and wear its leather; livestock eat grass and drink water, and move places with the seasons.
Therefore, in emergencies, people practice horseback riding and archery, and in peacetime, people live and work in peace and contentment.
The Huns' restraints were simple and easy to implement; the relationship between the monarch and his ministers was also simple and straightforward, so it could be maintained for a long time.
The government affairs of the entire country are like the affairs of one person.
When the father and elder brother died, the son and younger brother would marry their wives as their own wives, for fear that the family and surname would have no descendants.
Therefore, although the marriage life of the Huns is chaotic, they must establish members of their own clan to pass down the family.
Nowadays, although people in the Central Plains pretend not to marry the wives of their fathers and brothers, their relatives have gradually become alienated, to the point of killing each other, and even changing their surnames and clans. This is all caused by this kind of thing.
Moreover, due to the many shortcomings of etiquette, people resent each other between their superiors and subordinates; and if palaces are built on a large scale out of etiquette, the people's vitality will be exhausted.
As for the Han people, they worked hard to cultivate fields and cultivate mulberry trees for food and clothing, and built cities for self-defense. As a result, the people did not know how to fight in emergencies and were exhausted from production during peacetime. well!


Chunk 17: 
original: 
自是之后，汉使欲辩论者，中行说辄曰： 汉使毋多言，顾汉所输匈奴缯絮米蘖，令其量中，必善美而已，何以言为乎？
且所给备善则已，不备善而苦恶，则候秋孰，以骑驰蹂乃稼穑也。
日夜教单于候利害处。
孝文十四年，匈奴单于十四万骑入朝那萧关，杀北地都尉卬，虏人民畜产甚多，遂至彭阳。
使骑兵入烧回中宫，候骑至雍甘泉。
于是文帝以中尉周舍、郎中令张武为将军，发车千乘，十万骑，军长安旁以备胡寇。
而拜昌侯卢卿为上郡将军，甯侯魏脩为北地将军，隆虑侯周灶为陇西将军，东阳侯张相如为大将军，成侯董赤为将军，大发车骑往击胡。
单于留塞内月余，汉逐出塞即还，不能有所杀。
匈奴日以骄，岁入边，杀略人民甚众，云中、辽东最甚，郡万余人。
汉甚患之，乃使使遗匈奴书，单于亦使当户报谢，复言和亲事。
孝文后二年，使使遗匈奴书曰： 皇帝敬问匈奴大单于无恙。
使当户且渠雕渠难、郎中韩辽遗朕马二匹，已至，敬爱。
先帝制，长城以北引弓之国受令单于，长城以内冠带之室朕亦制之，使万民耕织，射猎衣食，父子毋离，臣主相安，俱无暴虐。
translation: 
Those of you who live in mud and stone houses, stop talking and show off your fine clothes. What's the use of just wearing a tall hat to look noble? From then on, when the envoys of the Han Dynasty wanted to argue with them, the Bank of China always said: The envoys of the Han Dynasty should not say more, just remember the silk silk cotton and polished rice and distiller's yeast sent by the Han Dynasty to the Xiongnu, so that they are in sufficient quantity and ensure good quality. Why make irresponsible remarks?
Besides, it doesn’t matter if the things sent by the Han Dynasty are very good. If they are not very good but rough, then we will wait until the autumn season and we will send cavalry to trample your crops.
Zhongxing said that he would teach Chanyu to spy on the key points on the border of the Han Dynasty day and night.
In the fourteenth year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, the Xiongnu Chanyu led 140,000 cavalrymen to attack Chaona and Xiaoguan, killed Sun Yin, the captain of the Northern Territory, and plundered many people, livestock, and property.
Then the Xiongnu came to Pengyang again, and sent cavalry to break into the Huizhong Palace and set it on fire. The Xiongnu's scouting horses arrived at Yongganquan.
So Emperor Wen appointed Lieutenant Zhou She and Lang Zhongling Zhang Wu as generals, and dispatched thousands of chariots and 100,000 cavalry to garrison near Chang'an City to prevent the Huns from invading.
He also appointed Changhou Luqing as the general of Shangjun, Ninghou Wei Yao as the northern general, Longluhou Zhou Chong as the Longxi general, Shuyanghou Zhang Xiangru as the general, Chenghou Dong Chi as the general, and dispatched a large number of chariots and cavalry to attack the Xiongnu.
Shanyu stayed in the fortress for more than a month. The Han army drove away the Huns and returned without killing the enemy.
The Xiongnu became increasingly arrogant and invaded the border every year. Many people were killed. Yunzhong County and Liaodong County were the most serious, with more than 10,000 people killed in each county.
The Han Dynasty was very worried and sent an envoy to send a letter to the Xiongnu. The Shanyu also sent a person in charge to thank him, and the two sides discussed the matter of peace again.
In the second year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, the Han Dynasty sent an envoy to send a letter to the Xiongnu, saying: The emperor wishes to ask if the Xiongnu leader is safe and well.
You sent me the doctor Han Liao who gave me two horses as a gift. It has been delivered and I respectfully accept it.
Our late emperor stipulated: The nomadic archery people north of the Great Wall are under the jurisdiction of the Chanyu. I will be in charge of the families wearing hats and belts within the Great Wall, so that the people can farm the fields, weave and spin, shoot and hunt wild animals, and find food and clothing. Father and son will not be separated, monarch and ministers will live in peace, and they will not do violent and evil things.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
今闻渫恶民贪降其趋，背义绝约，忘万民之命，离两主之欢，然其事已在前矣。
书云 二国已和亲，两主欢说，寝兵休卒养马，世世昌乐，翕然更始 ，朕甚嘉之。
圣者日新，改作更始，使老者得息，幼者得长，各保其首领，而终其天年。
朕与单于俱由此道，顺天恤民，世世相传，施之无穷，天下莫不咸便。
汉与匈奴邻敌之国，匈奴处北地，寒，杀气早降，故诏吏遗单于秫蘖金帛绵絮它物岁有数。
今天下大安，万民熙熙，独朕与单于为之父母。
朕追念前事，薄物细故，谋臣计失，皆不足以离昆弟之欢。
朕闻天不颇覆，地不偏载。
translation: 
Now I heard that there were evil people who were greedy for ill-gotten gains, betrayed trust, broke off the peace treaty, ignored the lives of the people, and alienated the friendship between the two monarchs. However, these are things in the past.
Your letter said: Our two countries have made peace, and the monarchs of both countries are very happy about this. In the future, the war will be stopped, the soldiers will be recuperated, and the horses will be grazed. Generations of joy will be restored, and the stable situation will be restored. I appreciate this very much.
Saints must renew themselves and change their ways every day, so that the elderly can rest and the young can grow up smoothly, each of them can protect their lives and enjoy their old age.
The Chanyu and I have followed the principles of creation, complied with the will of God, and appeased all the people, so that our throne can be passed on from generation to generation, even to eternity, and everyone in the world praises this.
The Han Dynasty and the Xiongnu were evenly matched neighbors. The Xiongnu lived in the north, where the weather was cold and winter came early, so I ordered my officials to send a certain amount of tillers, gold, silk, cotton and other items to Shan Yu every year.
Now the world is very stable and all the people are happy. Only you and I, Shanyu, are the parents of the people and the rulers of the world.
I recall and miss the past, but it's just for some small possessions and trivial matters, plus the mistakes of the counselor's plans. These are not enough to alienate the friendship between our brothers.
I heard that the sky does not cover one side and the earth does not support one side.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
朕与单于皆捐细故，俱蹈大道，堕坏前恶，以图长久，使两国之民若一家子。
元元万民，下及鱼鳖，上及飞鸟，跂行喙息蠕动之类，莫不就安利，避危殆。
故来者不止，天之道也。
俱去前事，朕释逃虏民，单于毋言章尼等。
朕闻古之帝王，约分明而不食言。
单于留志，天下大安，和亲之后，汉过不先。
单于其察之。
单于既约和亲，于是制诏御史： 匈奴大单于遗朕书，和亲已定，亡人不足以益众广地，匈奴无入塞，汉无出塞，犭己今约者杀之，可以久亲，后无咎，俱便。
朕已许。
其布告天下，使明知之。
后四年，老上单于死，子军臣单于立，而中行说复事之。
汉复与匈奴和亲。
translation: 
Shanyu and I should put aside our past grudges, follow the great path of heaven and earth, eliminate our past grudges, and seek long-term peaceful coexistence so that the two peoples can be like sons and daughters of one family.
All the people, including fish and turtles, birds, and animals that move astray, have their beaks rested, or squirm, all of them tend toward safety and benefit and avoid danger.
Therefore, not stopping those who return is the way of God.
We should completely eliminate the misunderstandings in the past. I condone and pardon the Han people who fled to the Huns. Shan Yu, you should not blame Zhang Ni and others.
I heard that ancient emperors made clear agreements and never went back on them.
I hope that the Chanyu will pay attention, the world will be stable, and the Han Dynasty will not break the agreement after the marriage.
I hope Shanyu will consider this matter carefully.
The Chanyu had already agreed to make peace with the Han Dynasty, so Emperor Wenwen of the Han Dynasty issued a Shao Order to the censor, saying: The Great Chanyu of the Xiongnu sent me a letter. The Han-Hungarian peace situation has been decided. Taking in the fugitives is not enough to increase the population and expand the land. The Huns are not allowed to enter the fortress, and the Han Dynasty people are not allowed to leave the fortress. Violating the current peace treaty of beheading, this way we can have a long-term peaceful relationship, there will be no disasters in the future, and it will be convenient for both parties.
I have promised the Huns.
Now announce it to the world and let the officials and people know this clearly.
Four years later, the old Shang Shanyu died, and his son Junchen Shanyu succeeded to the throne. Zhongxing said that he served Junchen Shanyu again.
The Han Dynasty also made peace with the Xiongnu again.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
军臣单于立岁余，匈奴复绝和亲，大入上郡、云中各三万骑，所杀略甚众。
于是汉使三将军军屯北地，代屯句注，赵屯飞狐口，缘边亦各坚守以备胡寇。
又置三将军，军长安西细柳、渭北棘门、霸上以备胡。
胡骑入代句注边，烽火通于甘泉、长安。
数月，汉兵至边，匈奴亦远塞，汉兵亦罢。后岁余，文帝崩，景帝立，而赵王遂乃阴使于匈奴。
吴、楚反，欲与赵合谋入边。
汉围破赵，匈奴亦止。
自是后，景帝复与匈奴和亲，通关市，给遗单于，遣翁主如故约。
终景帝世，时时小入盗边，无大寇。
武帝即位，明和亲约束，厚遇关市，饶给之。
匈奴自单于以下皆亲汉，往来长城下。
汉使马邑人聂翁壹间阑出物与匈奴交易，阳为卖马邑城以诱单于。
单于信之，而贪马邑财物，乃以十万骑入武州塞。
translation: 
More than a year after the military minister Shan Yu came to the throne, the Xiongnu broke off the fraternal relations with the Han Dynasty and invaded Shangjun and Yunzhong counties. Thirty thousand cavalry were sent to each county. Many people were killed and a lot of property was robbed.
At that time, the Han Dynasty sent three generals to lead their troops and were stationed in Beidi County, Juzhu Mountain in Daidi, and Feihukou in Zhaodi. The officials and people living along the border also guarded the dangerous positions to prevent the Huns from invading.
Three generals were also stationed at Xiliu in the west of Chang'an City, Jimen and Bashang on the north bank of the Wei River to guard against the Xiongnu.
The Xiongnu cavalry invaded the Juzhu Mountain in Daidi, and the Han army's beacon alarm reached Ganquan and Chang'an.
A few months later, the Han army arrived at the frontier fortress, and the Huns also moved away from the frontier fortress, and the Mo army withdrew: More than a year later, Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty died and Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty succeeded to the throne. King Liu Suijing secretly sent envoys to the Huns.
When Wu Chu's dagger state rebelled, the Xiongnu wanted to conspire with Tang state to invade the Han Dynasty's frontier fortress.
The Han army surrounded and defeated Zhao State, and the Huns stopped their actions.
After that, Emperor Jing sent people to make peace with the Xiongnu, exchange border trade, give things to the Chanyu, marry the princess to the Chanyu, and act in accordance with the previous covenant.
Throughout the reign of Emperor Jing, there were small-scale invasions and robberies by the Huns from time to time, but there were no major invasions.
After Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty succeeded to the throne, he stated the provisions regarding marriage and treated the Xiongnu very favorably in border market trade, providing them with rich supplies of bridles.
The Xiongnu people from Shanyu on down were all close to the Han people and traveled under the Great Wall.
The Han Dynasty sent Nie Wengyi, a native of Mayi, to take goods out of the customs and trade with the Huns secretly, pretending to sell the city of Mayi to the Huns, in order to lure the Chanyu.
Chanyu believed his words and coveted the property wrapped in Mayi City, so he led 100,000 cavalry into the entrance of Wuzhou.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
汉伏兵三十余万马邑旁，御史大夫韩安国为护军将军，护国将军以伏单于。
单于既入汉塞，未至马邑百余里，见畜布野而无人牧者，怪之，乃攻亭。
时雁门尉史行徼，见寇，保此亭，单于得，欲刺之。
尉史知汉谋，乃下，具告单于。
单于大惊，曰： 吾固疑之。
乃引兵还。
出曰： 吾得尉史，天也。
以尉史为天王。
汉兵约单于入马邑而纵，单于不至，以故无所得。
将军王恢部出代击胡辎重，闻单于还，兵多，不敢出。
汉以恢本建造兵谋而不进，诛恢。
自是后，凶奴绝和亲，攻当路塞，往往入盗于边，不可胜数。
translation: 
The Han Dynasty ambushed more than 300,000 troops near the city of Mayi. Han Anguo, the imperial censor, served as the general guarding the army and led four generals to prepare to ambush Cuiyu.
After Chanyu entered the Han Dynasty's frontier fortress, he was still more than a hundred miles away from the city of Mayi. He felt strange when he saw livestock scattered all over the fields but no one was grazing, so he attacked a post.
At that time, a Yanmen captain was patrolling the defense line and found the enemy, so he went to defend the post. The Shanyu caught him and wanted to kill him.
Knowing the Han army's plan, the lieutenant surrendered and told Shan Yu all about the Mo army's situation.
Shanyu was shocked and said: "I had some doubts about this."
So he led his army back.
After leaving the frontier fortress, Shanyu said: It is God's will that I can get Wei Shi.
He named Wei Shi the King of Heaven.
The Han army originally hoped to wait for the Chanyu to enter Mayi as promised and then attack with troops, but the Chanyu did not come, so they gained nothing.
The army led by General Wang Hui set out from Daidi to attack the Xiongnu's logistics troops. When he heard that the Shanyu was returning with his troops, the army was outnumbered and powerful, so he did not dare to attack.
The Han Dynasty killed Wang Hui because he planned the ambush in Mayi but he did not attack.
From then on, the Xiongnu severed their peaceful relations with the Han Dynasty, attacked the fortresses guarding the roads, and often invaded the borders and robbed countless people.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
然匈奴贪，尚乐关市，嗜汉财物，汉亦通关市不绝以中之。
自马邑军后五岁之秋，汉使四将各万骑击胡关市下。
将军卫青出上谷，至龙城，得胡首虏七百人。
公孙贺出云中，无所得。
公孙敖出代郡，为胡所败七千。
李广出雁门，为胡所败，匈奴生得广，广道亡归。
汉囚敖、广，敖、广赎为庶人。
其冬，匈奴数千人盗边，渔阳尤甚。
汉使将军韩安国屯渔阳备胡。
其明年秋，匈奴二万骑入汉，杀辽西太守，略二千余人。
又败渔阳太守军千余人，围将军安国。
安国时千余骑亦且尽，会燕救之，至，匈奴乃去，又入雁门杀略千余人。
于是汉使将军卫青将三万骑出雁门，李息出代郡，击胡，得首虏数千。
其明年，卫青复出云中以西至陇西，击胡之楼烦、白羊王子河南，得胡首虏数千，羊百余万。
于是汉遂取河南地，筑朔方，复缮故秦时蒙恬所为塞，因河而为固。
汉亦弃上谷之斗辟县造阳地以予胡。
是岁，元朔二年也。
translation: 
But the Huns were also very greedy. They still liked the trade markets in the frontier fortresses and the goods of the Han Dynasty. The Han Dynasty also opened the market to cater to their interests.
In the autumn of the fifth year since the ambush in Mayi, the Han Dynasty sent four generals with 10,000 cavalry each to attack the Hungarian troops in the frontier market area.
General Qizhi attacked from Shangfu and reached Longcheng, killing 700 Lifu people.
Gongsun He attacked from Zhou Shisu and gained nothing.
Gongsun Dian attacked from Jiajun and was killed by Baoji, with seven thousand people killed.
Li Guang attacked from Yanlong and was defeated by Li Su. Bao Chu captured Kui Chen alive, but Kui Chen escaped on the road.
Zunsu imprisoned Gong Zhufu and Kuilu, and they atone for their sins and became common people.
That winter, thousands of Huns invaded the border, and the Huns suffered the most serious damage among them.
The Han Dynasty sent General Han Anguo to station in Yuli to guard against Baocu's invasion.
In the autumn of the next year, another 20,000 Hungarian cavalry invaded the border fortress, killed the prefect of western Liaoning, and took away more than 2,000 people.
They also defeated the Yuyang Prefect's army of more than a thousand people and surrounded the general in Xuanli.
At that time, more than a thousand cavalry led by Zuo San'er were almost dead. It happened that the Yan Kingdom came to rescue them. After the rescue army arrived, the Huns withdrew. Bao Chu invaded Yadanna again, killing and plundering more than a thousand people.
So the Lian Dynasty sent General Zhizhi with 30,000 cavalry to attack from Yanmen, and Li Xi from Fudeng to attack the Huns and kill thousands of them.
The next year, Jie Xuan led his army from the west of Longyouli to Longyou and attacked Luyuan and Huangshengwang, which Baoji belonged to south of Dong Hui. He killed and captured thousands of Huns and obtained more than one million sheep.
So Sumu occupied the Tom area, built Suzuo City, repaired the pass originally built by General Shili's tomb, and relied on the Yellow River to strengthen the pass defense.
Selection of sculptures also gave up the remote and winding Yang-making place and gave it to Baocha.
This year is the second year of the Five Plastics Festival.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
其后冬，军臣单于死，其弟左右蠡王伊稚斜自立为单于，攻败军臣单于太子於单。
於单亡降汉，汉封於单为陟安侯，数月死。
伊稚斜单于既立，其夏，匈奴数万骑入代郡，杀太守共友，略千余人。
秋，又入雁门，杀略千余人。
其明年，又入代郡、定襄、上郡，各三万骑，杀略数千人。
匈奴右贤王怨汉夺之河南地而筑朔方，数寇盗边，及入河南，侵扰朔方，杀略吏民甚众。
其明年春，汉遣卫青将六将军十余万人出朔方高阙。
右贤王以为汉兵不能至，饮酒醉。
汉兵出塞六七百里，夜围右贤王。
右贤王大惊，脱身逃走，精骑往往随后去。
汉将军得右贤王人众男女万五千人，裨小王十余人。
其秋，匈奴万骑入代郡，杀都尉朱央，略千余人。
translation: 
In the winter of the following year, the military minister Chanyu died. His younger brother Zuoguli King Yi Zhenniu established himself as Chanyu and defeated the military minister Shanyu's crown prince Qi.
Li escaped, surrendered to He, and He granted him the title of Marquis of Zhi'an. Yu Shan died a few months later.
After Yi Zhixie Chanyu succeeded to the throne, in the summer of that year, tens of thousands of Xiongnu cavalry invaded Fajun, killed the prefect's friends and robbed more than a thousand people.
In the autumn of this year, they invaded Yanmen County, killed and kidnapped more than a thousand people.
The next year, they invaded Daijun, Dingxiang and Shangjun, with 30,000 cavalry on each route, killing and taking away thousands of people.
King Youxian of the Xiongnu was very resentful of the Han Dynasty for seizing the area south of Donghui and building Shuofang City. He invaded the border many times and invaded Henan. He attacked and harassed Shuofang City and killed and looted many officials and people.
In the spring of the next year, the Han Dynasty sent Wei Qing to lead six generals and more than 100,000 troops from Shuofang and Gaoque to attack the Xiongnu.
King Youxian of the Xiongnu thought that he would not be able to choose the army, so he got drunk.
The desert army marched six to seven hundred miles out of the fortress and surrounded King Youxian overnight.
King Youxian was frightened and escaped, taking most of the Xiongnu's elite cavalry with him.
The general of the Han Dynasty captured 15,000 men and women from King Youxian's tribe, and more than ten people were supported by Xiaowang.
That autumn, 10,000 Xiongnu cavalry invaded Dai County, killed Captain Zhu Yang, and plundered more than a thousand people.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
其明年春，汉复遣大将军卫青将六将军，十余万骑，仍再出定襄数百里击匈奴，得首虏前后万九千余级，而汉亦亡两将军，三千余骑。
右将军建得以身脱，而前将军翕侯赵信兵不利，降匈奴。
赵信者，故胡小王，降汉，汉封为翕侯，以前将军与右将军并军，介独遇单于兵，故尽没。
单于既得翕侯，以为自次王，用其姊妻之，与谋汉。
信教单于益北绝幕，以诱罢汉兵，徼极而取之，毋近塞。
单于从之。
其明年，胡数万骑入上谷，杀数百人。
明年春，汉使票骑将军去病将万骑出陇西，过焉耆山千余里，得胡首虏八千余级，得休屠王祭天金人。
其夏，票骑将军复与合骑侯数万骑出陇西、北地二千里，过居延，攻祁连山，得胡首虏三万余级，裨小王以下十余人。
translation: 
In the spring of the next year, the Han Dynasty sent General Wei Qing to lead six generals and more than 100,000 cavalry. They still set out from Dingxiang and walked hundreds of miles to attack the Huns. They killed more than 19,000 Huns. The Han Dynasty also lost two generals and more than 3,000 cavalry.
The right general Su Jian escaped alone, while the former general Xihou Zhao Xin failed in the battle and surrendered to the Huns.
Pan Xin turned out to be a small king of the Xiongnu. After surrendering to the Han Dynasty, the Han Dynasty made him a Marquis of Xi. As a former general, he joined forces with Su Jian, the right general, and met Shan Yu's large army alone, so the entire army was wiped out.
The Chanyu obtained the Marquis of Xi, made him the second king after the Chanyu, married his sister to him, and discussed with him how to deal with the Han Dynasty.
The religious Chanyu went further north and crossed the desert to lure and overwhelm the Han army, so that the Han army would be extremely tired before attacking and not get close to the border fortress.
Shan Yu followed Xin Zhao's advice.
The next year, tens of thousands of Xiongnu cavalry invaded the upper valley and killed hundreds of people.
In the spring of the next year, the Han Dynasty sent General Huo Qubing to lead 10,000 cavalry from Longxi, crossed the Yanqi Mountain for more than a thousand miles, wiped out more than 8,000 Xiongnu, and captured King Xiutu's golden man.
That summer, Husband General Huo Qubing and Heqihou led tens of thousands of cavalry from Longxi and the north, marched two thousand miles, passed through Juyan, and attacked the Qilian Mountains, wiping out more than 30,000 Xiongnu people and more than ten people under the title of Xiao Wang.


Chunk 25: 
original: 
是时，匈奴亦来入代郡、雁门，杀略数百人。
汉使博望侯及李将军广出右北平，击匈奴左贤王。
左贤王围李广，广军四千人死者过半，杀虏亦过当。
会博望侯军救至，李将军得脱，尽亡其军。
合骑侯后票骑将军期，及博望侯皆当死，赎为庶人。
其秋，单于怒昆邪王、休屠王居西方为汉所杀虏数万人，欲召诛之。
昆邪、休屠王恐，谋降汉，汉使票骑将军迎之。昆邪王杀休屠王，并将其众降汉，凡四万余人，号十万。
于是汉已得昆邪，则陇西、北地、河西益少胡寇，徙关东贫民处所夺匈奴河南地新秦中以实之，而减北地以西戍卒半。
明年春，匈奴入右北平、定襄各数万骑，杀略千余人。
translation: 
At that time, the Xiongnu also invaded Daijun and Yanmenjun, killing and plundering hundreds of people.
The Han Dynasty sent Bowang Hou Zhang Qian and General Li Guang from Youbeiping to attack the Xiongnu Zuoxian King.
King Zuo Xian surrounded Li Guang. More than half of the four thousand Han troops led by Li Guang were killed, and the number of enemies he killed exceeded his own.
Just when Bowang Hou's rescue army arrived, General Li had to escape, but the army was all dead.
Heqi Hou Gongsun Ao missed the date agreed with Hussar General Huo Qubing. Both he and Bowang Hou Zhang Qian should be sentenced to death and use their titles to atone for their sins and become commoners.
In the autumn of that year, Chanyu was very angry that King Kunxie and King Xiutu who were stationed in the west were wiped out by the desert army and captured tens of thousands of people. He wanted to call them here and kill them.
King Kunxie and King Xiutu were frightened and discussed surrendering to the Han Dynasty. The Han Dynasty sent General Hussar to meet them. King Kunxie killed King Xiutu and led his troops to surrender to the Han Dynasty. There were more than 40,000 people in total, known as 100,000 people.
At this time, after the Han Dynasty received the surrender of King Kunxie, Longxi, Beidi, and Hexi were less invaded by the Xiongnu, so they moved the poor people from Guandong to the new Qinzhong area in Henan Province they had captured to enrich the border areas, and reduced the number of troops stationed in the area west of the Northland by half.
In the spring of the next year, the Huns invaded Youbeiping and Dingxiang counties with tens of thousands of cavalry, killing and plundering more than a thousand people.


Chunk 26: 
original: 
其明年春，汉谋以为 翕侯信为单于计，居幕北，以为汉兵不能至 。
乃粟马，发十万骑，私负从马凡十四万匹，粮重不与焉。
令大将军青、票骑将军去病中分军，大将军出定襄，票骑将军出代，咸约绝幕击匈奴。
单于闻之，远其辎重，以精兵待于幕北。
与汉大将军接战一日，会暮，大风起，汉兵纵左右翼围单于。
单于自度战不能与汉兵，遂独与壮骑数百溃汉围西北遁走。
汉兵夜追之不得，行捕斩首虏凡万九千级，北至窴颜山赵信城而还。
单于之走，其兵往往与汉军相乱而随单于。
单于久不与其大众相得，右谷蠡王以为单于死，乃自立为单于。
真单于复得其众，右谷蠡乃去号，复其故位。
票骑之出代二千余里，与左王接战，汉兵得胡首虏凡七万余人，左王将皆遁走。
票骑封于狼居胥山，禅姑衍，临翰海而还。
translation: 
In the spring of the next year, the rulers and ministers of the Han Dynasty discussed: Xihou Zhao Xin gave Shan Yu a plan to move to the north of the desert, thinking that the Han army could not attack there.
So they fed the horses with grain and dispatched 100,000 cavalry. There were also 140,000 volunteers who brought their own clothes, food and horses to join the army. The carriages and horses transporting grain were not included.
He ordered General Wei Qing and Hussar General Huo Qubing to each lead half of their troops. Wei Qing set out from Dingxiang and General Hussar from Daidi. They agreed to cross the desert to attack the Xiongnu.
When the Shanyu heard about this, he transported the food and grass to a distant place and led his elite troops to fight in Mobei.
One day of fighting with the Han Dynasty general Wei Qing, it happened to be dark and a strong wind blew. The Han army sent out the left and right wings to surround Shanyu.
The Chanyu expected that he could not defeat the Han army, so he alone and hundreds of elite cavalry broke through the siege of the desert army and fled northwest.
The Han army pursued throughout the night but failed to capture Chanyu. During the pursuit, they captured and killed more than 19,000 Xiongnu people. They fought north to Zhao Xincheng in Zhenyan Mountain before returning.
When the Chanyu fled, the Xiongnu soldiers often mixed with the Han army and followed the Chanyu.
The Chanyu was unable to meet his own troops for a long time. King Yougu Li thought that the Chanyu was dead, so he proclaimed himself the Chanyu.
The true Chanyu later gathered his own tribe, and King Yougu Li removed the title of Chanyu and restored his original title.
General Huo Qubing set out from Dai and crossed more than 2,000 miles north to fight with King Zuoxian. The Han army killed and captured more than 70,000 Huns, but King Zuoxian and his generals all escaped.
General Hussar built an altar to worship heaven on Langjuxu Mountain and a place to worship on Guyan Mountain. He did not return to the army until he reached Hanhai.


Chunk 27: 
original: 
是后，匈奴远遁，而幕南无王庭。
汉度河自朔方以西至令居，往往通渠置田官，吏卒五六万人，稍蚕食，地接匈奴以北。
初，汉两将大出围单于，所杀虏八九万，而汉士物故者亦万数，汉马死者十余万匹。
匈奴虽病，远去，而汉马亦少，无以复往。
单于用赵信计，遣使好辞请和亲。
天子下其议，或言和亲，或言遂臣之。
丞相长史任敞曰： 匈奴新困，宜使为外臣，朝请于边。
汉使敞使于单于。单于闻敞计，大怒，留之不遣。
先是，汉亦有所降匈奴使者，单于亦辄留汉使相当。
汉方复收士马，会票骑将军去病死，于是汉久不北击胡。
数岁，伊稚斜单于立十三年死，子乌维立为单于。
是岁，元鼎三年也。
乌维单于立，而汉武帝始出巡狩郡县。
其后汉方南诛两越，不击匈奴，匈奴亦不入边。
乌维立三年，汉已灭两越，遣故太仆公孙贺将万五千骑出九原二千余里，至浮苴井，从票侯赵破奴万余骑出令居数千里，至匈奴河水，皆不见匈奴一人而还。
translation: 
After that, the Xiongnu fled far away, and Monan no longer had the royal court of Shan Yu.
The Han people crossed the Yellow River and went west from Shuofang to Lingju. They built canals and opened fields everywhere, and set up officials. There were fifty or sixty thousand officials and soldiers. They slowly encroached on the Xiongnu territory, and the land was connected to the north of the Xiongnu's old territory.
At the beginning, generals Wei Qing and Huo Qubing of the Han Dynasty sent troops to besiege Shanyu, killing and capturing 89,000 Xiongnu people. Tens of thousands of Han soldiers died, and more than 100,000 Han army horses died.
Although the Xiongnu were exhausted and fled far away, the Han army lacked horses and could not pursue them.
Chanyu adopted the letter's suggestion and sent an envoy to say good things and ask for a marriage.
The emperor handed the matter over to the ministers for discussion. Some of the ministers said that they should make peace with the Huns, while others said that they should be made vassals.
Prime Minister Shi Renchang said: The Xiongnu were newly defeated and tired. They should be allowed to serve as foreign ministers and go to the frontier areas to pay homage to the Emperor of the Han Dynasty.
The Han Dynasty sent Ren Chang as an envoy to Shan Yu Nahuo. After Shan Yu heard about Ren Chang's idea, he became furious and detained Ren Chang and refused to let him go back.
Prior to this, the Han Dynasty also recruited and surrendered some Huns envoys, and the Chanyu always detained the Han Dynasty's envoys to compensate.
The Han Dynasty was mobilizing troops and horses, but Huo Qu, the general of the Hussars, died of illness. Therefore, the Han Dynasty did not attack the Xiongnu in the north for a long time.
A few years later, Yi Zhixie Chanyu died, having reigned for thirteen years. His son Uwe succeeded as Chanyu.
This year is the third year of Yuanding.
After Uwe Chanyu succeeded to the throne, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty began to inspect various counties and counties.
Later, the Han Dynasty went to conquer the two Vietnames in the south, but did not attack the Xiongnu, and the Xiongnu did not invade the border.
Three years after Uwe Shanyu succeeded to the throne, the Han Dynasty wiped out both Vietnams. He sent Sun He, the former Tai servant, to lead 15,000 cavalry out of Jiuyuan for more than 2,000 miles to Fujujing. He sent Piaohou Tangponu to lead more than 10,000 cavalry out to the Xiongnu River for several thousand miles to the Xiongnu River. Both armies came back without encountering a single Huns.


Chunk 28: 
original: 
是时，天子巡边，亲至朔方，勒兵十八万骑以见武节，而使郭吉风告单于。
既至匈奴，匈奴主客问所使，郭吉卑体好言曰： 吾见单于而口言。
单于见吉，吉曰： 南越王头已悬于汉北阙下。今单于即能前与汉战，天子自将兵待边；即不能，亟南面而臣子汉。
何但远走，亡匿于幕北寒苦无水草之地为？
语卒，单于大怒，立斩主客见者，而留郭吉不归，迁辱之北海上。
而单于终不肯为寇于汉边，休养士马，习射猎，数使使好辞甘言求和亲。
汉使王乌等窥匈奴。
匈奴法，汉使不去节、不以墨黥其面，不得入穹庐。
王乌，北地人，习胡俗，去其节，黥面入庐。
translation: 
At this time, Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty inspected the border and personally arrived at Shuofang City. He commanded 180,000 cavalry to show his military might. At the same time, he sent Guo Ji as an envoy to advise Shan Yu.
After arriving at the Xiongnu, the Xiongnu official in charge of receiving guests asked Guo Ji what his mission was. Guo Ji humbly said kindly and said: I want to tell Shan Yu in person when I see him in person.
Shanyu then met with Guo Ji, who said: The head of the King of Nanyue has been hung under the north gate of the Han Dynasty palace. If you, Shanyu, can go to fight the Han soldiers now, then the emperor of the Han Dynasty is waiting at the border with his troops; if you cannot go, you should face south and surrender to the Han Dynasty.
Why just run away to the north and hide in the cold and miserable place with no water and grass in the north of the desert?
After Guo Ji finished speaking, Shanyu was furious and immediately killed the concierge responsible for the reception. He detained Guo Ji and refused to let him go back. In order to humiliate Guo Ji, he exiled him to the North Sea.
In the end, Chanyu did not dare to invade the Han Dynasty's border. He rested his troops and horses, practiced hunting, and sent envoys to the Han Dynasty many times to sweetly ask for peace.
The Han Dynasty sent Wang Wu and others as envoys to spy on the Xiongnu.
Xiongnu law stipulates that envoys from the Han Dynasty who do not put down the talismans and do not use ink on their faces are not allowed to enter the account.
Wang Wu was from the north and knew the customs of the Xiongnu. He removed the talismans, painted his face with ink, and entered the felt tent.


Chunk 29: 
original: 
单于爱之，阳许曰： 吾为遣其太子入质于汉，以求和亲。
汉使杨信使于匈奴。
是时，汉东拔濊貉、朝鲜以为郡，而西置酒泉郡以隔绝胡与羌通之路。
又西通月氏、大夏，以翁主妻乌孙王，以分匈奴西方之援。
又北益广田至眩雷为塞，而匈奴终不敢以为言。
是岁，翕侯信死，汉用事者以匈奴已弱，可臣从也。
杨信为人刚直屈强，素非贵臣也，单于不亲。
欲召入，不肯去节，乃坐穹庐外见杨信。
杨信说单于曰： 即欲和亲，以单于太子为质于汉。
单于曰： 非故约。
故约，汉常遣翁主，给缯絮、食物有品，以和亲，而匈奴亦不复扰边。
今乃欲反古，令吾太子为质，无几矣。
translation: 
Chanyu liked Wang Wu, so he pretended to promise Wang Wu: "For your sake, I will send the prince to the Han Dynasty to be a hostage, in order to make peace with the Han Dynasty."
The Han Dynasty sent Yang Xin as an envoy to the Xiongnu.
At this time, the Han Dynasty captured Jia Raccoon and North Korea in the east and made them the counties of the Han Dynasty. Jiuquan County was set up in the west to isolate the communication roads between the Xiongnu and Qiang people.
The Han Dynasty also communicated with the Yuezhi and Daxia in the west and married the princess to King Wusun in order to divide the friendly countries that the Xiongnu provided as backup in the west.
They further expanded farmland to the north, all the way to Xuanglei. As a frontier fortress of the Han Dynasty, they never dared to say anything to these Xiongnu.
In this year, Xihou Tanxin died. The rulers of the Han Dynasty believed that the Huns were weak and could be surrendered.
Yang Xin was a strong, upright and stubborn man. He had never been a noble minister, and the Chanyu did not treat him affectionately.
The Xiongnu Chanyu wanted to summon him into the tent, but Yang Xin refused to remove the talisman, so the Chanyu had to meet Yang Xin outside the tent.
Yang Xin advised Chanyu: If you plan to make peace with the Han Dynasty, send the prince to the Han Dynasty as a hostage.
Shanyu said: This is not what our covenant originally stipulated.
The original covenant stipulated that the Han Dynasty would always marry the princess to the Chanyu, and give us a certain amount of silk, silk cotton, and food for marriage, and the Xiongnu would no longer invade the borders of the Han Dynasty.
Now you want to go against the previous rules and ask my prince to go to the Han Dynasty as a hostage. It seems that there is no hope of getting married.


Chunk 30: 
original: 
匈奴俗，见汉使非中贵人，其儒生，以为欲说，折其辞辩；少年，以为欲刺，折其气。
每汉兵入匈奴，匈奴辄报偿。
汉留匈奴使，匈奴亦留汉使，必得当乃止。
杨信既归，汉使王乌等如匈奴。
匈奴复谄以甘言，欲多得汉财物，绐王乌曰： 吾欲入汉见天子，面相结为兄弟。
王乌归报汉，汉为单于筑邸于长安。
匈奴曰： 非得汉贵人使，吾不与诚语。
匈奴使其贵人至汉，病，服药欲愈之，不幸而死。
汉使路充国佩二千石印绶使，送其丧，厚币直数千金。
单于以为汉杀吾贵使者，乃留路充国不归。
诸所言者，单于特空绐王乌，殊无意入汉、遣太子来质。
于是匈奴数使奇兵侵犯汉边，汉乃拜郭昌为拔胡将军，乃氵足野侯屯朔方以东，备胡。
translation: 
The customary practice of the Xiongnu was: when they saw that the envoys were not the eunuchs favored by the Han emperor, but Confucian scholars, they thought they were here to lobby, so they refuted their arguments; if they were young people, they thought they were here to assassinate them, and discouraged them.
Every time the Han army entered the Huns, the Huns would retaliate.
The Han Dynasty detained the Xiongnu envoys, and the Huns also wanted to detain the Han Dynasty's envoys. They would not stop until there was equality between the two sides.
After Yang Xin returned, the Han Dynasty sent Wang Wu and others as envoys to the Xiongnu.
The Huns still flattered him with good words, but they just wanted to get more property from the Han Dynasty, so they deceived Wang Wu and said: I want to go to the Han Dynasty to pay homage to the Emperor of the Han Dynasty and make an appointment to become brothers in person.
Wang Wu came back to report to the court, and the Han Dynasty built an official residence for Chanyu in Chang'an.
The Xiongnu also said: Unless a prominent official from the Han Dynasty comes as an envoy, I will not tell you the truth.
The Xiongnu sent their nobleman as an envoy to the Han Dynasty. The nobleman fell ill. The Han Dynasty gave him medicine in an attempt to cure him, but unfortunately he died.
During the Han Dynasty, Chongguo wore a two-thousand-stone seal ribbon and sent envoys to the Xiongnu to attend funerals for Xiongnu nobles. The generous funeral expenses amounted to thousands of kilograms of gold.
The Chanyu believed that the noble man was killed by the Han Dynasty, so he detained Lu Chongguo and refused to let him come back.
What Shan Yu said several times was just to deceive Wang Wu. He had no sincerity in coming to the Han Dynasty and did not send the prince as a hostage.
At this time, the Xiongnu repeatedly sent surprise troops to invade the borders of the Han Dynasty. So the Han Dynasty worshiped Guo Chang as the general to suppress the Hu, and sent him and the Marquis of Zhaoye to station east of Shuofang to guard against the Huns.


Chunk 31: 
original: 
乌维单于立十岁死，子詹师庐立，年少，号为皃单于。
是岁，元封六年也。
自是后，单于益西北，左方兵直云中，右方兵直酒泉、敦煌。
皃单于立，汉使两使，一人吊单于，一人吊右贤王，欲以乖其国。
使者入匈奴，匈奴悉将致单于。
单于怒而悉留汉使。
汉使留匈奴者前后十余辈，而匈奴使来汉，亦辄留之相当。
是岁，汉使贰师将军西伐大宛，而令因杅将军筑受降城。
其冬，匈奴大雨雪，畜多饥寒死，皃单于年少，好杀伐，国中多不安。
左大都尉欲杀单于，使人间告汉曰： 我欲杀单于降汉，汉远，汉即来兵近我，我即发。
初汉闻此言，故筑受降城。犹以为远。
其明年春，汉使氵足野侯破奴将二万骑出朔方北二千余里，期至浚稽山而还。
translation: 
Uwe Chanyu died after reigning for ten years, and his son Zhan Shilu became a Chanyu. Because of his young age, he was named Er Chanyu.
This year is the sixth year of Yuanfeng.
From then on, the Chanyu moved northwest, with the left army facing Yunzhong County and the right army facing Jiuquan and Dunhuang.
After Er Chanyu succeeded to the throne, the Han Dynasty sent two envoys, one to condolences Chanyu, and the other to condolences King Youxian, hoping to divide the Xiongnu monarchs and ministers.
After the envoys arrived at the Huns, the Huns handed them all over to the Shanyu.
The Chanyu was furious and detained them all.
The Han Dynasty’s envoys were detained in more than ten batches before and after the Huns, and after the Huns’ envoys came to the Han Dynasty, the Han Dynasty always detained them to compensate.
In this year, the Han Dynasty sent General Li Guangli of the Second Division westward to attack the Kingdom of Dayuan, and also sent General Gongsun Ao of Ingan to build the surrender city.
That winter, there was heavy snow in the Huns, and most of the livestock starved to death and froze to death. Chanyu was young and liked to kill people and fight, so many people in the country were uneasy.
Captain Zuo wanted to kill Shan Yu, so he secretly sent someone to tell the Han Dynasty: I want to kill Shan Yu and surrender to the Han Dynasty. But the Han Dynasty is too far away. If the Han Dynasty sends troops to meet me nearby, I will start an uprising.
When the Han Dynasty heard this, they built the surrender city. The emperor thought that he was far away from the Xiongnu.
In the spring of the next year, the Han Dynasty sent Zhao Ponu, the Marquis of Zhaoye, with 20,000 cavalry, more than 2,000 miles north of Shuo, with the agreement that they would not return until they reached Junji Mountain.


Chunk 32: 
original: 
氵足野侯既至期，左大都尉欲发而觉，单于诛之，发兵击浞野侯。氵足野侯行捕首虏数千人。
还，未至受降城四百里，匈奴八万骑围之。
氵足野侯夜出自求水，匈奴生得氵足野侯，因急击其军。
军吏畏亡将而诛，莫相劝而归，军遂没于匈奴。
单于大喜，遂遣兵攻受降城，不能下，乃侵入边而去。
明年，单于欲自攻受降城，未到，病死。
皃单于立三岁而死。
子少，匈奴乃立其季父乌维单于弟右贤王句黎湖为单于。
是岁，太初三年也。
句黎湖单于立，汉使光禄勋徐自为出五原塞数百里，远者千里，筑城障列亭至卢朐，而使游击将军韩说、长平侯卫伉屯其旁，使强弩都尉路博德筑居延泽上。
其秋，匈奴大人云中、定襄、五原、朔方，杀略数千人，败数二千石而去，行坏光禄所筑亭障。
又使右贤王入酒泉、张掖，略数千人。
translation: 
Zhao Yehou arrived at Junji Mountain as agreed and returned to his army. Lieutenant Zuo wanted to attack but was discovered. The Chanyu killed him and sent out troops to attack Zhao Yehou. Zhao Yehou retreated while capturing and capturing thousands of Xiongnu people.
Walking back to a place four hundred miles away from the city of surrender, we were surrounded by 80,000 Xiongnu cavalry.
Hou Yehou went out to find water at night. The Xiongnu captured Zhao Yehou alive and took the opportunity to attack the Han army.
The officials in the army were afraid that the court would kill them if they lost their generals. No one persuaded them to return to the Han Dynasty, so the Mo army was destroyed by the Xiongnu.
Shanzi was overjoyed, so he sent an army to attack the city of Shoujiang. When he failed to capture it, he invaded and harassed the border fortress, and then left.
The next year, Shanyu wanted to personally lead his army to attack Shanduo Yue, but he died of illness before arriving.
King Erli died after reigning for three years.
When his son was still young, Liyi people supported his uncle, Youxian Wang Bao Zhengyi, the younger brother of Uwei Danzi, as his chanyu.
This year is the third year of Youchi.
After the Chanyu of Juli Lake succeeded to the throne, the Han Dynasty sent Guanglu Xubai to go out of Wuyuan Fortress several hundred miles or even a thousand miles away to build castle posts as far as Luqu; they also sent guerrilla generals Han Shuo and Changping Houwei to station near them, and sent strong crossbow captain Lu Bode to build a castle beside Juyanze.
In the autumn of this year, the Xiongnu invaded Yunzhong, Dingxiang, Wuyuan, and Shuofang counties on a large scale, killing and plundering thousands of people, and defeated several officials worth two thousand shi before leaving.
On the way to retreat, the castle post built by Guanglu Xu Zi was destroyed. He also sent King Youxian to invade Jiuquan and Zhangye and plundered thousands of people.


Chunk 33: 
original: 
会任文击救，尽复失其所得而去。
闻贰师将军破大宛，斩其王还，单于欲遮之，不敢，其冬病死。
句黎湖单于立一岁死，其弟左大都尉且鞮侯立为单于。
汉既诛大宛，威震外国，天子意欲遂困胡，乃下诏曰： 高皇帝遗朕平城之忧，高后时单于书绝悖逆。
昔齐襄公复九世之雠，《春秋》大之。
是岁，太初四年也。
且鞮侯单于初立，恐汉袭之，尽归汉使之不降者路充国等于汉。
单于乃自谓： 我儿子，安敢望汉天子！
汉天子，我丈人行。
汉遣中郎将苏武厚币赂遗单于，单于益骄，礼甚倨，非汉所望也。
明年，浞野侯破奴得亡归汉。
translation: 
It happened that Ren Wen led his army to intercept the Xiongnu and rescued the Han people. King Youxian lost all the plundered property, men and horses and retreated.
When the Xiongnu heard that General Li Guangli of the Second Division had invaded the Dayuan Kingdom and killed the King of Dayuan and returned, the Chanyu wanted to intercept him on the road, but in the end he did not dare to do so. The Chanyu died of illness that winter.
The Chanyu of Julihu died after reigning for one year, and his younger brother Zuo Daduwei and the Marquis of Tartar succeeded him as Chanyu.
The Han Dynasty destroyed the Dayuan Kingdom and shocked foreign countries. Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty wanted to further defeat the Xiongnu, so he issued an edict saying: Emperor Gao left me with the worry of the royal city being besieged. The letter from Shanyu during the reign of Emperor Gao was very rebellious.
In the past, Duke Xiang of Qi avenged his ancestors of the Nine Dynasties from afar, and the "Spring and Autumn Annals" praised him.
This year is the fourth year of Taichu.
Moreover, the Danhou Shanyu had just succeeded to the throne and was afraid that the Han Dynasty would attack the Xiongnu, so he released all the Han Dynasty envoys who refused to surrender, such as Lu Chongguo, etc. back to the Han Dynasty.
Shanyu himself declared: I am a younger generation, how dare I compare with the Emperor of Han!
Han Tian is my elder.
The Han Dynasty sent Zhonglang Su Wu to send generous gifts to Chanyu. Chanyu became even more arrogant and stubborn in etiquette, which was not what the Han Dynasty expected.
The next year, Zhao Ponu, the Marquis of Zhaoye, escaped from the Xiongnu and returned to the Han Dynasty.


Chunk 34: 
original: 
其明年，汉使贰师将军将三万骑出酒泉，击右贤王于天山，得首虏万余级而还。
匈奴大围贰师，几不得脱。
汉兵物故什六七。
汉又使因杅将军出西河，与强弩都尉会涿邪山，亡所得。
使骑都尉李陵将步兵五千人出居延北千余里，与单于会，合战，陵所杀伤万余人，兵食尽，欲归，单于围陵，陵降匈奴，其兵得脱归汉者四百人。
单于乃贵陵，以其女妻之。
后二岁，汉使贰师将军六万骑、步兵七万，出朔方；强弩都尉路博德将万余人，与贰师会，游击将军说步兵三万人，出五原；因杅将军敖将骑万，步兵三万人，出雁门。
匈奴闻，悉远其累重于余吾水北，而单于以十万待水南，与贰师接战。
贰师解而引归，与单于连斗十余日，游击亡所得。
因杅与左贤王战，不利，引归。
translation: 
The next year, the Han Dynasty sent General Li Guang of the Second Division to lead 30,000 cavalry from Jiuquan to attack King Youxian in the Tianshan Mountains. He killed and captured more than 10,000 Xiongnu and returned.
The Huns laid siege to the general of the Second Division, and Li Guangli could hardly escape.
Six out of ten Han soldiers died.
The Han Dynasty also sent Yingan General Gongsun Ao out of Xihe County to meet with Lu Bode, the strong crossbow commander, at Zhuoxie Mountain, but nothing was obtained.
He also sent the cavalry captain Li Ling to lead 5,000 infantrymen from the north of Juyan. After walking for more than a thousand miles, he encountered Shanyu. The two sides fought. Li Ling killed and wounded more than 10,000 Xiongnu people. He had run out of weapons and food. He wanted to break out, but Shanyu surrounded Li Ling. Li Ling surrendered to the Xiongnu. Four hundred of his soldiers escaped and returned to the Han Dynasty.
The Chanyu honored Li Ling and married his daughter to him.
Two years later, the Han Dynasty sent General Li Guang of the Second Division to lead 60,000 cavalry and 70,000 infantry to set out from Shuofang; sent General Lu Bode, the strong crossbow captain, to lead more than 10,000 people to join forces with the General of the Second Division; sent guerrilla general Han Yuo to lead 30,000 infantry to set off from Wuyuan;
After the Xiongnu heard the news, they transported their families and belongings far to the north of the Yuwu River, while Shanyu led 100,000 cavalry to wait for the Han army south of the Yuwu River and engage in battle with the general of the Second Division.
The general of the Second Division broke away from the contact and led the army back, fighting with Shanyu for more than ten days. Guerrilla General Han said nothing was gained.
The battle between General Yingan and King Zuoxian did not go well, so he led his army back.


Chunk 35: 
original: 
明年，且鞮侯单于死，立五年，长子左贤王立为狐鹿姑单于。
是岁，太始元年也。
初，且鞮侯两子，长为左贤王，次为左大将，病且死，言立左贤王。
左贤王未至，贵人以为有病，更立左大将为单于。
左贤王闻之，不敢进。
左大将使人召左贤王而让位焉。
左贤王辞以病，左大将不听，谓曰： 即不幸死，传之于我。
左贤王许之，遂立为狐鹿姑单于。
狐鹿姑单于立，以左大将为左贤王，数年病死，其子先贤掸不得代，更以为日逐王。
日逐王者，贱于左贤王。
单于自以其子为左贤王。
单于既立六年，而匈奴入上谷、五原，杀略吏民。
其年，匈奴复入五原、酒泉，杀两部都尉。
translation: 
In the second year, Qi Qianhou Chanyu died. After reigning for five years, his eldest son, King Zuoxian, succeeded to the throne, namely Hulugu Chanyu.
This year is the first year of Taishi.
At the beginning, Chanyu, the Marquis of Jie Ning, had two sons. The eldest son was King Zuoxian, and the second son was General Zuo. Moreover, the Chanyu of Qianhou was ill and was about to die, so he made King Zuoxian the Chanyu in his last words.
When King Zuo Xian did not arrive, the Xiongnu nobles thought that King Zuo Xian was ill, so they instead supported General Zuo Shanyu.
After King Zuo Xian heard about it, he did not dare to come to the royal court.
General Zuo sent people to summon King Zuo Xian to give him the throne.
King Zuo Xian declined on the pretext that he was ill. General Zuo refused to accept his brother's resignation and said: "Unfortunately, you have died, so you can pass the throne to me."
King Zuo Xian agreed, so he appointed King Zuo Xian as Hulu Gu Chanyu.
After Hulu Gu Shanyu succeeded to the throne, she made her younger brother Zuo Dajiang the Zuoxian King. A few years later, Zuoxian King died of illness. His son Xianxianshan failed to take his place as Zuoxian King, but became King Zhu.
King Zhu is in a lower position than King Zuoxian.
Hulugu Shanyu made her son the Xianwang of Zuo.
Six years after Hulugu Chanyu ascended the throne, the Huns sent troops to invade Shanggu and Wuyuan, killing and plundering the officials and people of the Han Dynasty.
That year, the Huns invaded Wuyuan and Jiuquan and killed the captains of the two counties.


Chunk 36: 
original: 
于是汉遣贰师将军七万人出五原，御史大夫商丘成将三万余人出西河，重合侯莽通将四万骑出酒泉千余里。
单于闻汉兵大出，悉遣其辎重，徙赵信城北邸郅居水。
左贤王驱其人民度余吾水六七百里，居兜衔山。
单于自将精兵左安侯度姑且水。
御史大夫军至追邪径，无所见，还。
匈奴使大将与李陵将三万余骑追汉军，至浚稽山合，转战九日，汉兵陷陈却敌，杀伤虏甚众。
至蒲奴水，虏不利，还去。
重合侯军至天山，匈奴使大将偃渠与左右呼知王将二万余骑要汉兵，见汉兵强，引去。
重合侯无所得失。
是时，汉恐车师兵遮重合侯，乃遣闿陵侯将兵别围车师，尽得其王民众而还。
贰师将军将出塞，匈奴使右大都尉与卫律将五千骑要击汉军于夫羊句山狭。
贰师遣属国胡骑二千与战，虏兵坏散，死伤者数百人。
汉军乘胜追北，至范夫人城，匈奴奔走，莫敢距敌。
translation: 
So the Han Dynasty sent General Li Guangli of the Second Division to lead an army of 70,000 people to set off from Wuyuan; it sent the censor Shang Qiucheng to lead more than 30,000 people to set off from Xihe;
When Chanyu heard that the Han Dynasty had sent out a large army, he transported all the food and supplies to Zhijushui in the north of the city.
King Zuo Xian led the Xiongnu tribe across the Yuwu River and traveled six to seven hundred miles to live in Doubian Mountain.
Chanyu personally led his elite troops to cross the temporary river with Zuo Anhou.
The Yushi doctor's troops arrived at Zhuixie Trail, but returned without encountering the Huns.
The Xiongnu generals and Li Ling led more than 30,000 cavalry to pursue the Han army and surrounded the Han army at Junji Mountain. The two sides fought repeatedly for nine days. The Mo army charged into the battle, repulsed the enemy, and killed a large number of Huns.
When they arrived at Punu River, the Xiongnu had no luck in fighting, so they retreated.
When the army led by Hou Mangtong arrived at the Tianshan Mountains, the Xiongnu sent General Yanqu and King Zuohuzhi and King Youhuzhi to lead 20,000 cavalry to intercept the Han army. Seeing that the Han army was strong, they retreated.
There is no gain or loss in the coincidence.
At this time, the Han Dynasty was afraid that Cheshi's troops would intercept Chonghe Hou, so he sent Minlinghou to lead an army to surround Cheshi City. After breaking the city, King Wang and his tribe, who completely captured Cheshi, returned.
When General Li Guangli of the Second Division was about to leave the frontier fortress, the Huns sent Captain Right and Wei Lu to lead five thousand cavalry to intercept and attack the desert army in the narrow pass of Fuyangju Mountain.
The general of the Second Division sent 2,000 Xiongnu soldiers from his own country to fight Weilu. Weilu's soldiers were defeated and hundreds of people were killed or injured.
Taking advantage of the victory, the Han army pursued the fleeing enemy and reached Madame Fan City. The Huns fled one after another, and no one dared to resist the Han army.


Chunk 37: 
original: 
会贰师妻子坐巫蛊收，闻之忧惧。
其掾胡亚夫亦避罪从军，说贰师曰： 夫人室家皆在吏，若还不称意，适与狱会，郅居以北可复得见乎？
贰师由是狐疑，欲深入要功，遂北至郅居水上。
虏已去，贰师遣护军将二万骑度郅居之水。
一日，逢左贤王左大将，将二万骑与汉军合战一日，汉军杀左大将，虏死伤甚众。
军长史与决眭都尉煇渠侯谋曰： 将军怀异心，欲危众求功，恐必败。
谋共执贰师。
贰师闻之，斩长史，引兵还至速邪乌燕然山。
单于知汉军劳倦，自将五万骑遮击贰师，相杀伤甚众。
夜堑汉军前，深数尺，从后急击之，军大乱败，贰师降。
单于素知其汉大将贵臣，以女妻之，尊宠在卫律上。
translation: 
It happened that General Ershi's wife and son were arrested for committing witchcraft. Li Guangli was very worried and frightened when he heard about it.
Li Guangli's servant Hu Yafu was also in the army because he had escaped. He persuaded Li Guangli: If a person's family and children have been arrested by the officials, if he cannot rescue them as he wishes when he returns, but happens to meet them in prison, will it be possible to see the place north of Zhiju again at that time?
Therefore, the general of the Second Division was hesitant and wanted to penetrate deeply into the Xiongnu and gain military exploits, so he led his army to the north and arrived at the Zhiju River.
The Huns had already fled, so the general of the Second Division sent an escort with 20,000 cavalry across the Zhiju River.
One day, he encountered King Zuo Xian and General Zuo. They led 20,000 cavalry and fought with the Mo army for a day. The Han army killed General Zuo and the Huns suffered heavy casualties.
Han Army Commander Shi discussed with Marquis Huiqu, the commander of Juesui, and said: General Li has second thoughts. He wants to put everyone in danger and seek glory for himself. I'm afraid he will definitely fail.
The two discussed to arrest Li Guangli together.
When Li Guangli heard about it, he killed Chang Shi and led his army back to Suxie Wuyanran Mountain.
Chanyu knew that the Han army was very tired, so he personally led 50,000 cavalry to intercept and attack the general of the Second Division. The two sides fought and suffered heavy casualties.
The Xiongnu dug a trench several feet deep in front of the Han army at night and launched a fierce attack from behind. The Han army was in chaos and defeated. The general of the Second Division surrendered to the Xiongnu.
Shan Yu always knew that Li Guangli was a general and noble minister of the Han Dynasty, so he married his daughter to him and respected him more than Wei Lv.


Chunk 38: 
original: 
其明年，单于遣使遗汉书云： 南有大汉，北有强胡。胡者，天之骄子也，不为小礼以自烦。
今欲与汉闿大关，取汉女为妻，岁给遗我糵酒万石，稷米五千斛，杂缯万匹，它如故约，则边不相盗矣。
汉遣使者报送其使，单于使左右难汉使者，曰： 汉，礼义国也。
贰师道前太子发兵反，何也？
使者曰： 然。
乃丞相私与太子争斗，太子发兵欲诛丞相，丞相诬之，故诛丞相。
此子弄父兵，罪当笞，小过耳。
孰与冒顿单于身杀其父代立，常妻后母，禽兽行也！
单于留使者，三岁乃得还。
translation: 
The next year, Shan Yu sent an envoy to send a letter to the Han Dynasty, saying: There is the Han Dynasty in the south, and the powerful Xiongnu in the north. Hu means a proud man who does not worry about small etiquette.
现在我们想与汉朝大开边界，娶汉朝的女儿做妻子，每年汉朝送给我们一万石酒，五千斛粮食，各种布绢一万匹，其他方面像以前约定的那样，那么我们就不侵扰汉朝边界了。
The Han Dynasty sent envoys to report back and send back the Xiongnu envoys. Shanyu asked the people around him to ask questions to the Han Dynasty envoys, saying: The Han Dynasty is a country that respects etiquette and justice.
But General Li Guangli of the Second Division said that the former prince rebelled. Why is this?
The Han Dynasty envoy replied: That's what happened.
But that incident was a personal fight between the prime minister and the prince. The prince raised an army and wanted to kill the prime minister. The prime minister falsely accused the prince, so he killed the prime minister.
This is a son playing with his father's army, and he should be whipped for a crime. It is just a small mistake.
How does it compare with Maodun Chanyu personally shooting his biological father, establishing himself as a Chanyu, and marrying his stepmother as his wife? That's the behavior of an animal!
Chanyu detained the envoy and did not let him come back for three years.


Chunk 39: 
original: 
贰师在匈奴岁余，卫律害其宠，会母阏氏病，律饬胡巫言先单于怒，曰： 胡故时祠兵，常言得贰师以社，今何故不用？
于是收贰师，贰师骂曰： 我死必灭匈奴！
遂屠贰师以祠。
会连雨雪数月，畜产死，人民疫病，谷稼不熟，单于恐，为贰师立祠室。
自贰师没后，汉新失大将军士卒数万人，不复出兵。
三岁，武帝崩。
前此者，汉兵深入穷追二十余年，匈奴孕重惰殰，罢极苦之。
自单于以下常有欲和亲计。
后三年，单于欲求和亲，会病死。
初，单于有异母弟为左大都尉，贤，国人乡之，母阏氏恐单于不立子而立左大都尉也，乃私使杀之。
translation: 
General Li Guangli of the Second Division had stayed with the Huns for more than a year. Wei Lu was very jealous of Li Guangli's favor. It happened that Shan Yu's mother was ill. Wei Lu ordered the Huns' shaman to tell her that the late Shan Yu was angry and said: We used to sacrifice soldiers and often said that if we catch the General of Second Division, we will kill him and sacrifice him to the ancestral temple. Now that we have caught him, why don't we use him to sacrifice him in the temple?
Therefore, the Chanyu captured General Ershi, and Li Guangli cursed: I will destroy the Huns after I die!
So he killed General Ershi and offered sacrifices to the temple.
It happened that the Xiongnu had been snowing heavily for several months, and the livestock froze to death. People also fell ill with the plague, and the crops failed to mature. Chanyu was afraid, so he built a temple to worship the second division general Li Guangli.
Since General Ershi was defeated by the Xiongnu, the Han Dynasty had lost tens of thousands of generals and soldiers, so it did not send any more troops.
Three years later, Emperor Mowu died.
Prior to this, the Han army penetrated deep into the Huns and pursued the Huns for more than 20 years. The Huns suffered miscarriages and their families were ruined. They were very tired of this kind of life.
Everyone from Shanyu on down hoped to make peace with the Han Dynasty.
Three years later, Chanyu wanted to ask for peace with the Han Dynasty, but he fell ill and died.
At the beginning, Shanyu had a half-brother who was the captain of Zuo. He was very wise and the Huns all admired him. Shanyu's mother was afraid that Shanyu would not give birth to a son but would establish Zuo Daduwei, so she secretly sent people to kill Zuo Daduwei.


Chunk 40: 
original: 
左大都尉同母兄怨，遂不肯复会单于庭。
又单于病且死，谓诸贵人： 我子少，不能治国，立弟右谷蠡王。
及单于死，卫律等与颛渠阏氏谋，匿单于死，诈矫单于令，与贵人饮盟，更立子左谷蠡王为壶衍鞮单于。
是岁，始元二年也。
壶衍鞮单于既立，风谓汉使者，言欲和亲。
左贤王、右谷蠡王以不得立怨望，率其众欲南归汉。
恐不能自致，即胁卢屠王，欲与西降乌孙，谋击匈奴。
卢屠王告之，单于使人验问，右谷蠡王不服，反以其罪罪卢屠王，国人皆冤之。
于是二王去居其所，未尝肯会龙城。
后二年秋，匈奴入代，杀都尉。
单于年少初立，母阏氏不正，国内乖离，常恐汉兵袭之。
于是卫律为单于谋： 穿井筑城，治楼以藏谷，与秦人守之。
translation: 
Captain Zuo's brother was very resentful of this and refused to attend court meetings at Shan Yu's court again.
In addition, when the Chanyu was about to die of illness, he said to the nobles of the Huns: My son is too young to govern the country. I will appoint my younger brother King Yougu Li as the Chanyu.
After the death of Chanyu, Wei Lu and others negotiated with Zhuanquban clan to conceal Chanyu's death, and under the guise of Chanyu's order, they drank and swore an oath with the Xiongnu nobles, and changed the name of Zhuanqupi clan's son, King Zuoguli, to Huyanta Chanyu.
This year is the second year of the First Yuan Dynasty.
After Huyan Qianyu succeeded to the throne, he hinted to the Han envoys that he wanted to make peace with the Han Dynasty.
King Zuoxian and King Youguli of the Xiongnu were very resentful because they were not appointed as chanyus, and wanted to lead their tribes to surrender to the Han Dynasty.
Afraid that he would not be able to reach the Han Dynasty, he coerced King Lu Tu and asked him to surrender to the Wusun Kingdom in the west with him and discuss attacking the Xiongnu.
King Lutu reported the matter, and the Chanyu sent people to investigate. King Youguli did not plead guilty, but put the blame on King Lutu. The people of the Huns thought that King Lutu was unjust.
So King Xian of the Left and King Guli of the Right returned to their own places and refused to go to Shanyu's Dragon City again.
In the autumn of two years later, the Huns invaded Dai County and killed the captain.
The Chanyu was young and had just succeeded to the throne. His mother had behaved improperly, and the people in the country were in disarray. They were often afraid that the desert army would attack them.
So Wei Lu gave Chanyu advice to dig wells, build cities, build high buildings to store grains, and guard them together with the descendants of the Qin people who had fled to the Xiongnu.


Chunk 41: 
original: 
汉兵至，无奈我何。
即穿井数百，伐材数千。
或曰胡人不能守城，是遗汉粮也，卫律于是止，乃更谋归汉使不降者苏武、马宏等。
马宏者，前副光禄大夫王忠使西国，为匈奴所遮，忠战死，马宏生得，亦不肯降。
故匈奴归此二人，欲以通善意。
是时，单于立三岁矣。
明年，匈奴发左右部二万骑，为四队，并入边为寇。
汉兵追之，斩首获虏九千人，生得瓯脱王，汉无所失亡。
匈奴见瓯脱王在汉，恐以为道击之，即西北远去，不敢南逐水草，发人民屯瓯脱。
明年，复遣九千骑屯受降城以备汉，北桥余吾，令可度，以备奔走。
是时，卫律已死。
卫律在时，常言和亲之利，匈奴不信，及死后，兵数困，国益贫。
translation: 
Even if the Han army attacks, there will be nothing they can do to us.
So hundreds of wells were dug and thousands of trees were felled.
Some people said that the Huns could not hold on to the city and that they were sending food to the Han army. Wei Lü stopped and came up with the idea to release the Han envoys Su Wu, Ma Hong and others who refused to surrender.
Ma Hong once went on a mission to the countries in the Western Regions with his deputy Guanglu doctor Wang Zhong, but was intercepted by the Huns. Wang Zhong died in the battle, and Ma Hong was captured alive and refused to surrender.
So the Xiongnu released these two people back to the Han Dynasty, hoping that they would bring the Xiongnu's goodwill for reconciliation.
At this time, it had been three years since Shanyu succeeded to the throne.
The next year, the Xiongnu sent 20,000 cavalry from the left and right, organized into four teams, to invade the border and harass them.
The Han army pursued them, killed and captured nine thousand people, and captured King Outuo alive. The Han Dynasty suffered no losses.
Seeing that King Outuo was captured in the Han Dynasty, the Huns were worried that the Han Dynasty would let him lead the way to attack them, so they moved far to the northwest, and did not dare to go south to graze with water and grass, and sent people to garrison Outuo.
The next year, nine thousand cavalry were stationed in the surrendered city to guard against the desert army, and a bridge was built on the Yuwu River in the north to allow people to cross, in order to prepare for escape in times of crisis.
At that time, Wei Lu was already dead.
When Weilu was alive, he often talked about the benefits of peace with the Han Dynasty, but the Huns did not believe it. After Weilu's death, the Huns' army was besieged many times and the country became even poorer.


Chunk 42: 
original: 
单于弟左谷蠡王思卫律言，欲和亲而恐汉不听，故不肯先言，常使左右风汉使者。
然其侵盗益希，遇汉使愈厚，欲以渐致和亲，汉亦羁縻之。
其后，左谷蠡王死。
明年，单于使犁汙王窥边，言酒泉、张掖兵益弱，出兵试击，冀可复得其地。
时汉先得降者，闻其计，天子诏边警备。
后无几，右贤王、犁汙王四千骑分三队，入日勒、屋兰、番和。
张掖太守、属国都尉发兵击，大破之，得脱者数百人。
属国千长义渠王骑士射杀犁汙王，赐黄金二百斤，马二百匹，因封为犁汙王。
属国都尉郭忠封成安侯。
自是后，匈奴不敢入张掖。
translation: 
Shan Yu's younger brother, King Zuo Guli, recalled what Wei Lu said and thought it made sense. He wanted to make peace with the Han Dynasty, but he was worried that the Han Dynasty would not agree, so he did not want to talk about it first. He often asked people around him to make insinuations and discuss the matter with Han Dynasty envoys.
However, there were fewer intrusions on the borders of the Han Dynasty, and the envoys of the Han Dynasty were treated more politely. In order to slowly reconcile with the Han Dynasty, the Han Dynasty also adopted a tolerant policy towards it.
Later, King Zuo Guli died.
The next year, the Shanyu sent King Lizu to secretly inspect the borders of the Han Dynasty. When he came back, he reported to the Shanyu that the Han army in Jiuquan and Zhangye was even weaker. If he sent troops to attack, there might be hope of regaining those places.
At that time, the Han Dynasty got the surrender first and knew the Xiongnu's plan. The emperor of the Han Dynasty issued an edict and ordered the desert army on the border to be wary of the Xiongnu invasion.
Soon afterwards, King Youxian and King Lizu of the Xiongnu led four thousand cavalry into three teams and invaded Yuele, Wulan, and Fanhe.
The prefect of Zhangye and the captain of the subordinate states sent troops to attack the Xiongnu and defeated the enemy. Only a few hundred Xiongnu escaped.
The knights of King Qian Changyiqu of the country shot and killed the King of Ploughs. The Han Dynasty gave him 200 catties of gold and 200 horses, and made him the King of Ploughs.
Guo Zhong, the captain of the vassal state, was granted the title of Marquis of Cheng'an.
From then on, the Huns did not dare to invade Zhangye.


Chunk 43: 
original: 
其明年，匈奴三千余骑入五原，略杀数千人，后数万骑南旁塞猎，行攻塞外亭障，略取吏民去。
是时，汉边郡烽火候望精明，匈奴为边寇者少利，希复犭已塞。
汉复得匈奴降者，言乌桓尝发先单于冢，匈奴怨之，方发二万骑击乌桓。
大将军霍光欲发兵邀击之，以问护军都尉赵充国。
充国以为： 乌桓间数犭已塞，今匈奴击之，于汉便。
又匈奴希寇盗，北边幸无事。
蛮夷自相攻击，而发兵要之，招寇生事，非计也。
光更问中郎将范明友，明友言可击。
于是拜明友为度辽将军，将二万骑出辽东。
匈奴闻汉兵至，引去。
初，光诫朋友： 兵不空出，即后匈奴，遂击乌桓。
乌桓时新中匈奴兵，明友既后匈奴，因乘乌桓敝，击之，斩首六千余级，获三王首，还，封为平陵侯。
匈奴由是恐，不能出兵。
translation: 
The next year, the Xiongnu sent more than 3,000 cavalry into Wuyuan, killing and plundering thousands of people. Later, they sent tens of thousands of cavalry southward to hunt and harass along the frontier fortress. As they went, they attacked the Han Dynasty's castles and outposts outside the fortress, and captured officials and people.
At that time, the Han Dynasty's frontier fortress counties were very smart in their warning beacons and watched carefully. The Huns who invaded the border rarely went smoothly, so they rarely invaded the border fortress again.
The Han Dynasty got another Huns who surrendered, saying that Wuhuan had dug up the grave of the late Xiongnu Chanyu. The Xiongnu resented Wuhuan and were now sending 20,000 cavalry to attack Wuhuan.
General Huo Guang wanted to send troops to intercept and attack the Xiongnu, so he asked the guard captain Zhao Chongguo about this matter.
Zhao Chongguo believed that Wuhuan had invaded the borders of the Han Dynasty many times before, and now the Xiongnu attacked them, which was convenient for the Han Dynasty.
In addition, the Huns rarely invaded the border. Fortunately, there were no wars on the northern border.
The barbarians attacked each other, and the Han Dynasty sent troops to stop them, provoking the Xiongnu and causing trouble. It was not a good idea.
So Huo Guang asked Zhonglang General Fan Mingyou for advice, and Fan Mingyou said that he could attack them.
So the Han Dynasty appointed Fan Mingyou as General Du Liao and led 20,000 cavalry to attack from Liaodong.
When the Xiongnu heard that the Han army had arrived, they retreated.
Before the Han army set off, Huo Guang warned Fan Mingyou: The army should not go out in vain. If it misses the Xiongnu, it will attack Wuhuan.
Wuhuan had just been defeated by the Xiongnu army at that time. Fan Mingyou followed the Xiongnu and took advantage of the opportunity to attack Wuhuan. He killed more than 6,000 Wuhuan people and three Wuhuan princes. He led his army back and the Han Dynasty named Fan Mingyou the Marquis of Pingling.
The Huns were very frightened and did not dare to send any more troops.


Chunk 44: 
original: 
即使使之乌孙，求欲得汉公主。
击乌孙，取车延、恶师地。
乌孙公主上书，下公卿议救，未决。
昭帝崩，宣帝即位，乌孙昆弥复上书言： 连为匈奴所侵削，昆弥愿发国半精兵人马五万匹，尽力击匈奴，唯天子出兵，哀救公主！
本始二年，汉大发关东轻锐士，选郡国吏三百石伉健习骑射者，皆从军。
遣御史大夫田广明为祁连将军，四万余骑，出西河；度辽将军范明友三万余骑，出张掖；前将军韩增三万余骑，出云中；后将军赵充国为蒲类将军，三万余骑，出酒泉；云中太守田顺为虎牙将军，三万余骑，出五原：凡五将军，兵十余万骑，出塞各二千余里。
及校尉常惠使护发兵乌孙西域，昆弥自将翕侯以下五万余骑从西方入，与五将军兵凡二十余万众。
匈奴闻汉兵大出，老弱奔走，驱畜产远遁逃，是以五将少所得。
translation: 
So he sent envoys to the Wusun Kingdom to get the Han princess who married Wusun.
He also attacked the Wusun Kingdom and captured Cheyan, Eshi and other places.
The Han princess who married Wusun wrote to the Emperor of the Han Dynasty asking for help. The Han Dynasty handed the matter over to the ministers for discussion, but could not decide what to do.
At this time, Emperor Zhao died and Emperor Xuan of the Han Dynasty succeeded. Kunmi, the leader of the Wusun Kingdom, wrote to the Emperor of the Han Dynasty again, saying: We have been invaded and weakened by the Huns one after another. I am willing to use half of the elite soldiers in the country, totaling 50,000 horses, to fight against the Xiongnu with all my strength. I hope the Emperor of the Han Dynasty will send troops to rescue the princess!
In the second year of this period, the Han Dynasty sent a large number of elite soldiers and generals from Guandong, and selected generals with more than three hundred stones in each county. All those who were brave, strong, good at riding and shooting were all recruited into the army.
Tian Guangming, the imperial censor, was appointed as General Qilian, leading more than 40,000 cavalry, starting from Xihe County; General Fan Mingyou of Liao Dynasty was sent to lead more than 30,000 cavalry, starting from Zhangye; former general Han Zeng was sent to lead more than 30,000 cavalry, starting from Yunzhong County; General Zhao was appointed Chongguo was appointed General Pulei, leading more than 30,000 cavalry, and set out from Jiuquan; he appointed Tian Shun, the prefect of Yunzhong County, as General Huya, leading more than 30,000 cavalry, and set out from Wuyuan: a total of five generals and more than 100,000 cavalry were sent to march more than 2,000 miles from the frontier fortress.
Chang Hui, the captain who was sent as an envoy to protect the princess, sent troops from Wusun's western regions. Wusun Kunmi personally led more than 50,000 cavalrymen under the rank of Jihou to attack the Xiongnu from the west. Together with five Han Dynasty generals, there were more than 200,000 troops.
When the Xiongnu heard that the Han Dynasty had sent a large number of troops, the old, sick and weak fled in a hurry, driving their livestock and their belongings and fled far away, so the five generals did not gain much.


Chunk 45: 
original: 
度辽将军出塞千二百余里，至蒲离候水，斩首捕虏七百余级，卤获马、牛、羊万余。
前将军出塞千二百余里，至乌员，斩首捕虏，至候山百余级，卤马、牛、羊二千余。
蒲类将军兵当与乌孙合击匈奴蒲类泽，乌孙先期至而去，汉兵不与相及。
蒲类将军出塞千八百余里，西去候山，斩首捕虏，得单于使者蒲阴王以下三百余级，卤马、牛、羊七千余。
闻虏已引去，皆不至期还。
天子蒲其过，宽而不罪。
祁连将军出塞千六百里，至鸡秩山，斩首捕虏十九级，获牛、马、羊百余。
逢汉使匈奴还者冉弘等，言鸡秩山西有虏众，祁连即戒弘，使言无虏，欲还兵。
御史属公孙益寿谏，以为不可，祁连不听，遂引兵还。
虎牙将军出塞八百余里，至丹余吾水上，即止兵不进，斩首捕虏千九百余级，卤马、牛、羊七万余，引兵还。
上以虎牙将军不至期，诈增卤获，而祁连知虏在前，逗留不进，皆下吏自杀。
擢公孙益寿为侍御史。
校尉常惠与乌孙兵至右谷蠡庭，获单于父行及嫂、居次、名王、犁汙都尉、千长、将以下三万九千余级，虏马、牛、羊、驴、骡、橐驼七十余万。
汉封惠为长罗侯。
translation: 
Fan Mingyou, the general who conquered the Liao Dynasty, traveled more than 1,200 miles from the frontier to Pulihoushui. He killed and captured more than 700 Huns, and captured more than 10,000 horses, cattle and sheep.
Former general Han Zeng traveled more than 1,200 miles from the frontier to reach Wuyuan, where he killed and captured the Huns. When he arrived at Houshan, there were only more than 100 people, and more than 2,000 horses, cattle and sheep were captured.
General Pulei went to Chongguo and was supposed to besiege the Xiongnu with the Wusun army in Puleize as agreed. The Wusun army arrived and left earlier than the agreed date, and the Han army failed to meet up with the Wusun army.
General Pu Lei went out for more than 1,800 miles from the frontier and went west to Houshan. He killed and captured the Huns. In total, he captured more than 300 people, including the Shanyu envoy King Puyin, and more than 7,000 horses, cattle and sheep.
It was heard that the Huns had fled, but these generals did not come back as scheduled.
The emperor alleviated their sins and pardoned them without punishing them.
Qilian General Tian Guangming traveled more than 1,600 miles from the frontier to reach Jizhi Mountain. He killed and captured 19 Huns and obtained more than 100 cattle, horses and sheep.
On the way, he met Ran Hong, an envoy of the Han Dynasty who had returned from the Huns, and others. They said that there were a large number of Huns to the west of Jizhi Mountain. Tian Guangming warned Ran Hong and asked him to tell Ran Hong that there were no Huns when he returned and wanted to lead his troops back to the Han Dynasty.
Gongsun Yishou, the censor, advised Tian Guangming that he could not do this. Qilian General Tian Guangming did not listen to the advice and led his army back.
Huya General Tian Shun traveled more than 800 miles from the frontier and reached the Danyuwu River. He stopped his army and refused to go forward. He killed and captured more than 1,900 Xiongnu people and captured more than 70,000 horses, cattle and sheep, and led his army back to the Han Dynasty.
The emperor deceived the emperor to increase the number of humans and animals he captured because Huya General Tian Shun did not come back by the agreed time limit; while General Qilian knew that the Huns were ahead, but stopped his army from advancing and handed them all over to the jailers for interrogation. Later they committed suicide.
Gongsun Yishou was promoted to serve as censor.
Captain Chang Hui and the Wusun army arrived at the court of King Youguli and captured more than 39,000 people, including Chanyu's father and sister-in-law, Juci, Mingwang, Ligudu Lieutenant, Qianchang, and generals, and seized more than 700,000 horses, oxen, sheep, donkeys, mules, and camels.
Therefore, the Han Dynasty granted Chang Hui the title of Marquis of Changluo.


Chunk 46: 
original: 
然匈奴民众死伤而去者，及畜产远移死亡不可胜数。
于是匈奴遂衰耗，怨乌孙。
其冬，单于自将万骑击乌孙，颇得老弱，欲还。
会天大雨雪，一日深丈余，人民畜产冻死，还者不能什一。
于是丁令乘弱攻其北，乌桓入其东，乌孙击其西。
凡三国所杀数万级，马数万匹，牛、羊甚众。
又重以饿死，人民死者什三，畜产什五，匈奴大虚弱，诸国羁属者皆瓦解，攻盗不能理。
其后汉出三千余骑，为三道，并入匈奴，捕虏得数千人还。
匈奴终不敢取当，兹欲乡和亲，而边境少事矣。
壶衍鞮单于立十七年死，弟左贤王立，为虚闾权渠单于。
是岁，地节二年也。
translation: 
The number of Xiongnu troops who lost their lives and injuries, as well as the livestock that died due to long-distance migration, are countless.
As a result, the Xiongnu declined and were very resentful of Wusun.
That winter, Shanyu personally led 10,000 cavalry to attack the Wusun Kingdom. He captured a few old and weak people and wanted to return to the army.
At this time, there happened to be heavy snowfall, which was more than ten feet deep in one day. Many of the tribesmen and livestock froze to death, and less than one tenth of them came back alive.
So Ding Lingguo took advantage of the Xiongnu's weakness to attack it from the north, Wuhuan State attacked it from Shubian, and Wusun State attacked it from the west.
These three countries killed tens of thousands of Huns and robbed tens of thousands of horses, as well as many cattle and sheep.
In addition, many people died of starvation, three-tenths of the Xiongnu people died, and five-tenths of the livestock died. The Xiongnu country declined greatly. Those subordinate countries of the Xiongnu rebelled and left one after another, attacking and harassing each other, and no one was able to govern them.
Later, the Han Dynasty sent more than 3,000 cavalry, divided into three groups, to attack the Huns together, and captured and brought back thousands of people.
In the end, the Xiongnu did not dare to retaliate against the Han Dynasty to compensate for the losses, but wanted to make peace with the Han Dynasty even more, and the borders of the Han Dynasty became peaceful and less troublesome from then on.
Hu Yanqian Chanyu died in the seventeenth year of his reign, and his younger brother Zuoxian Wang succeeded him as Chanyu. This is Xulu Quanqu Chanyu.
This year is the second year of the Earth Festival.


Chunk 47: 
original: 
虚闾权渠单于立，以右大将女为大阏氏，而黜前单于所幸颛渠阏氏。
颛渠阏氏父左大且渠怨望。
是时，匈奴不能为边寇，于是汉罢外城，以休百姓。
单于闻之喜，召贵人谋，欲与汉和亲。
左大且渠心害其事，曰： 前汉使来，兵随其后，今亦效汉发兵，先使使者入。
乃自请与呼卢訾王各将万骑南旁塞猎，相逢俱入。
行未到，会三骑亡降汉，言匈奴欲为寇。
于是天子诏发边骑屯要害处，使大将军军监治众等四人将五千骑，分三队，出塞各数百里，捕得虏各数十人而还。
时匈奴亡其三骑，不敢入，即引去。
是岁也，匈奴饥，人民畜产死十六七。
translation: 
After Xulu Quan Qu Chanyu succeeded to the throne, he established the right general's daughter as the Pi family and deposed the Zhuan Quque family who was favored by the late Chanyu.
Zhuan Quban's father, Zuo Daqiequ, was very resentful.
At that time, because the Xiongnu did not dare to invade the border again, the Han Dynasty abandoned the cities on the border fortress so that the people defending there could rest and recuperate.
When Shanyu heard about this, he was very happy and summoned the Xiongnu nobles to discuss the matter and wanted to make peace with the Han Dynasty.
Zuo Daqiequ was jealous of this, so he said to Shanyu: In the past, the Han Dynasty sent envoys, and the army followed closely and came to attack us.
Now we can also follow the example of the Han Dynasty in dispatching troops, and first send envoys to pay homage to the Emperor of Han. So he asked Shan Yu to allow himself and King Huluzi to lead 10,000 cavalry to the south to hunt along the Han Dynasty's border fortress. After meeting, they attacked the border fortress together.
Before reaching the border fortress, three Xiongnu cavalrymen happened to escape and surrendered to the Han Dynasty, saying that the Huns were coming to invade.
So the Emperor of the Han Dynasty issued an edict to station the cavalry on the frontier fortress in key places. He sent four people including the general, the general, and the supervisor to lead 5,000 cavalry. They were divided into three groups, and each went hundreds of miles away from the frontier fortress. Each captured dozens of Huns and returned.
At that time, the Huns escaped with three cavalrymen, so they did not dare to invade the border fortress and led their troops to retreat.
This year there was a famine in the Huns, and sixty-seven out of ten people and livestock died.


Chunk 48: 
original: 
又发两屯各万骑以备汉。
其秋，匈奴前所得西嗕居左地者，其君长以下数千人皆驱畜产行，与瓯脱战，所战杀伤甚众，遂南降汉。
其明年，西域城郭共击匈奴，取车师国，得其王及人众而去。
单于复以车师王昆弟兜莫为车师王，收其余民东徙，不敢居故地。
而汉益遣屯士分田车师地以实之。
其明年，匈奴怨诸国共击车师，遣左右大将各万余骑屯田右地，欲以侵迫乌孙西域。
后二岁，匈奴遣左右奥鞬各六千骑，与左大将再击汉之田车师城者，不能下。
其明年，丁令比三岁入盗匈奴，杀略人民数千，驱马畜去。
匈奴遣万余骑往击之，无所得。
其明年，单于将十万余骑旁塞猎，欲入边寇。
未至，会其民题除渠堂亡降汉言状，汉以为言兵鹿奚卢侯，而遣后将军赵充国将兵四万余骑屯缘边九郡备虏。
translation: 
Xiongsu also sent two villages with 10,000 cavalry each to guard against the Han army's attack.
In the autumn of this year, thousands of people from the Ximo tribe who lived in the left area who had previously belonged to the Xiongnu, starting from their monarch, drove their livestock to escape from the Xiongnu. They fought with the Xiongnu in the Outuo area. Many people were killed and injured in the battle, so they surrendered to the south and surrendered to the Han Dynasty.
The next year, armies from various countries in the Western Regions attacked the Xiongnu together, captured the Cheshi Kingdom, captured the King of Cheshi and his tribe and left.
Shanyu also appointed Doumo, the younger brother of Che Shigong, as King of Che Shigong. He gathered the remaining tribesmen and moved eastward, not daring to live in the original place again.
The Han Dynasty further dispatched soldiers to farm in various places in the Che Division to enrich Nabu's strength.
The next year, because the Xiongnu resented that all the countries in the Western Regions attacked Che Division together, they sent generals on the left and right respectively to lead 10,000 cavalry to garrison in the right area, hoping to oppress and invade Wusun and the countries in the Western Regions.
Two years later, the Huns sent left and right Ao Ta to lead 6,000 cavalry respectively, together with General Zuo, to attack the Han army stationed in Cheshi City again, but failed to capture it.
In the second year, the Lioling Kingdom invaded the Xiongnu frequently for three consecutive years, killing and plundering thousands of Xiongnu people and driving away their horses and livestock.
The Huns sent more than 10,000 cavalry to attack Ding Lingguo, but nothing was gained.
The next year, Shanyu led more than 100,000 cavalry to hunt along the frontier fortress, hoping for an opportunity to invade the frontier fortress.
Before they arrived, it happened that the Huns surrendered to the Han Dynasty and explained the situation. The Han Dynasty named him Yanbing Luxi Luhou and sent general Zhao Chongguo to lead more than 40,000 cavalry to station in nine counties along the border to guard against the Huns.


Chunk 49: 
original: 
月余，单于病欧血，因不敢入，还去，即罢兵。
乃使题王都犁胡次等入汉，请和亲，未报，会单于死。
是岁，神爵二年也。
虚闾权渠单于立九年死。
自始立而黜颛渠阏氏，颛渠阏氏即与右贤王私通。
右贤王会龙城而去，颛渠阏氏语以单于病甚，且勿远。
后数日，单于死。
郝宿王刑未央使人召诸王，未至，颛渠阏氏与其弟左大且渠都隆奇谋，立右贤王屠耆堂为握衍朐鞮单于。
握衍朐鞮单于者，代父为右贤王，乌维单于耳孙也。
握衍朐鞮单于立，复修和亲，遣弟伊酋若王胜之入汉献见。
单于初立，凶恶，尽杀虚闾权渠时用事贵人刑未央等，而任用颛渠阏氏弟都隆奇，又尽免虚闾权渠子弟近亲，而自以其子弟代之。
虚闾权渠单于子稽侯犭册既不得立，亡归妻父乌禅幕。
乌禅幕者，本乌孙、康居间小国，数见侵暴，率其众数千人降匈奴，狐鹿姑单于以其弟子日逐王姊妻之，使长其众，居右地。
日逐王选贤掸，其父左贤王当为单于，让狐鹿姑单于，狐鹿姑单于许立之。
国人以故颇言日逐王当为单于。
日逐王素与握衍朐鞮单于有隙，即率其众数万骑归汉。
汉封日逐王为归德侯。
单于更立其从兄薄胥堂为日逐王。
明年，单于又杀先贤掸两弟。
乌禅幕请之，不听，心恚。
其后左奥鞬王死，单于自立其小子为奥鞬王，留庭。
奥鞬贵人共立故奥鞬王子为王，与俱东徙。
单于遣右丞相将万骑往击之，失亡数千人，不胜。
时单于已立二岁，暴虐杀伐，国中不附。
translation: 
More than a month later, Shan Yu was so sick that he vomited blood, so the Xiongnu did not dare to invade and went back. The Han Dynasty also withdrew its army.
The Xiongnu sent Wangdu Li Huci and others to the Han Dynasty to request peace with the Han Dynasty. Before they could return to report the news, it happened that the Shanyu died.
This year is the second year of Shenjue.
Xujian Quanqu Chanyu died after nine years of reign.
As soon as Xujian Quanqu Shanyu came to the throne, he deposed the Zhuanqupi family, and the Zhuanquban family secretly committed adultery with King Youxian.
When King Youxian left after attending the Dragon City Conference, Zhuan Qupi told him that Shanyu was very ill and should not go far away for the time being.
A few days later, Shanyu died.
King Haosu Xingweiyang sent people to summon the princes from all the ministries, but before they arrived, Zhuan Qupi and his younger brother Zuo Daqi Qudu Longqi discussed and established King Youxian Tu Qitang as the leader of Yanqu Qianyu.
Zou Yanqu Qiandan replaced his father as the Youxian King, and was the distant grandson of Uwe Shanyu.
After holding Yanqu Qianyu's succession to the throne, he made peace with the Han Dynasty and sent his younger brother Yi Qiuruo Wang Shengzhi to the Han Dynasty to present gifts and meet him.
The Chanyu had just come to the throne, and he was very vicious. He killed all the nobles Xing Weiyang and others who were in power at the time of the Chanyu in Xuyanquanqu, and appointed Dulongqi, the younger brother of Zhuanqupi's family. He also removed all the close relatives of the Shanyu's descendants from their official positions and appointed his own children to replace them.
Jihou Zha, the son of Xulu Quanqu's Chanyu, failed to be established as Chanyu and fled to his father-in-law's Wuchanmu.
Wuchanmu was originally a small country between Wusun and Kangju. It was repeatedly invaded, so he led thousands of his troops to surrender to Licu. Hulugu Chanyu married his younger brother's son, the sister of King Chu, to the leader of Wuchanmu, and let him lead his tribe to live in Youdi.
It was said that King Zuo Xian, the father of King Zhu Xianshu, was supposed to be made a chanyu, but he gave it to Hulu Gu Chanyu. Therefore, Hulu Gu Chanyu promised to make Xianxian Shanyu a chanyu in the future.
Therefore, most Huns believe that the king should be a Chanyu.
King Yuezhu had always been in conflict with King Baobi Qianli, so he led tens of thousands of his troops to surrender to Handan.
Even the plastic seal says that Zhu Wang is a ridge and fallen fort.
The Chanyu re-established his cousin Lian Zhitang as king.
The next year, Shanyu Zouyan Quning killed the two younger brothers of Ya Xianxian Shan.
Wutanmu asked Shanyu not to kill them, but Shanyu did not listen, and Wutanmu was very angry.
Later, King Zuo Aotar died, and Chanyu made his youngest son King Aotar and left him in the royal court.
The nobles of Aotar jointly supported the son of the late king of Aotar as king and moved eastward with him.
Chanyu sent his right prime minister to lead 10,000 cavalry to pursue them, but lost thousands of them and failed to win.
At this time, Shanyu had been in power for two years. He killed many people and was very cruel. The people in the country were alienated from Shanyu.


Chunk 50: 
original: 
及太子、左贤王数谗左地贵人，左地贵人皆怨。
其明年，乌桓击匈奴东边姑夕王，颇得人民，单于怒。
姑夕王恐，即与乌禅幕及左地贵人共立稽侯犭册为呼韩邪单于，发左地兵四五万人，西击握衍朐鞮单于，至姑且水北。
未战，握衍朐鞮单于兵败走，使人报其弟右贤王曰： 匈奴共攻我，若肯发兵助我乎？
右贤王曰： 若不爱人，杀昆弟诸贵人。各自死若处，无来污我。
握衍朐鞮单于恚，自杀。
左大且渠都隆奇亡之右贤王所，其民众尽降呼韩邪单于。
是岁，神爵四年也。
握衍朐鞮单于立三年而败。
translation: 
In addition, the prince and King Zuo Xian repeatedly spoke ill of the nobles of Zuo, and the nobles of Zuo were very resentful.
The next year, Wuhuan attacked King Guxi, who was bound by the Xiongnu, and captured many people. The Chanyu was very angry with King Guxi.
King Guxi was frightened, so he, together with Wu Pengying and the nobles of Zuodi, supported Jijian as Huhanxie Chanyu. They dispatched an army of 40,000 to 50,000 men from Zuodi to attack King Yan Quningdan in the west and reached the north of Guge River.
Before the battle began, the army of King Juyanqu Qianli was defeated and fled. He sent someone to report to his younger brother King Youxian for help, saying: The Niuku people are attacking me together. Are you willing to send troops to help me?
King Youxian said: "You don't care about the people and kill your brother and other nobles. Just die there yourself. Don't come and taint me."
Qian Chanyu, who was holding Yan Qu, was very angry and committed suicide.
Zuo Dajiequ Dudan donkey fled to King Xian of You, and all his tribesmen surrendered. Follow the evil Chanyu.
This year is the fourth year of Shenjue.
Zou Yanqu Qian Shanyu collapsed after reigning for three years.


