Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝昭皇帝，武帝少子也。
母曰赵婕妤，本以有奇异得幸，及生帝，亦奇异。
语在《外戚传》。武帝末，戾太子败，燕王旦、广陵王胥行骄嫚，后元二年二月上疾病，遂立昭帝为太子，年八岁。
以侍中奉车都尉霍光为大司马大将军，受遗诏辅少主。
明日，武帝崩。戊辰，太子即皇帝位，谒高庙。
帝姊鄂邑公主益汤沐邑，为长公主，共养省中。
大将军光秉政，领尚书事，车骑将军金日磾、左将军上官桀副焉。
夏六月，赦天下。
秋七月，有星孛于东方。
济北王宽有罪，自杀。
赐长公主及宗室昆弟各有差。追遵赵婕妤为皇太后，起云陵。
冬，匈奴入朔方，杀略吏民。
发军屯西河，左将军桀行北边。
始元元年春二月，黄鹄下建章宫太液池中。公卿上寿。
translation: 
Emperor Zhao of the Han Dynasty was the youngest son of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty.
The mother is Zhao Jieyu. She was favored because of her strange aura. When she gave birth to Emperor Zhao, there was also something strange about her.
In the last years of Emperor Wu, the violent prince Liu Ju was deposed. King Liu Dan of Yan and King Liu Xu of Guangling both behaved arrogantly. Emperor Wu fell seriously ill in February of the second year of the Yuan Dynasty, so he made Emperor Zhao the prince. He was eight years old at the time.
As a servant, Huo Guang, the captain of the chariot, was appointed as the general of the Sima army. He was ordered by Emperor Wu to assist the young master.
Emperor Wu died the next day, and on February 15th, the prince succeeded to the throne and paid homage to the great ancestor in the temple.
Princess Eyi, the sister of Emperor Zhao, was granted the title of Tang Muyi, honored as the eldest princess, and was enshrined in the palace.
The general Huo Guang presides over the state affairs and is in charge of the secretarial affairs. The chariot and cavalry general Jin Rixi and the left general Shangguan Jie are his deputy.
In the sixth month of summer, forgive all sinners in the world.
In autumn and July, a comet appears in the eastern sky.
Liu Kuan, the king of Jibei, was guilty and committed suicide.
The eldest princess and her clan brothers were given various rewards, and Zhao Jieyu was posthumously given the title of empress dowager, and a Yunyang mausoleum was built for her.
In winter, the Xiongnu invaded Shuofang, killing and plundering the officials and civilians.
The imperial court sent troops to garrison in Xihe, and left general Shangguan Jie inspected the northern border.
In the spring of February of the first year of the First Yuan Dynasty, yellow swans were perched in the Taiye Pond of Jianzhang Palace. The minister thought it was a symbol of auspiciousness and wished the emperor long life.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
赐诸侯王、列侯、宗室金钱各有差。
已亥，上耕于钩盾弄田。
益封燕王、广陵王及鄂邑长公主各万三千户。
夏，为太后起园庙云陵。
益州廉头、姑缯、牂柯谈指、同并二十四邑皆反。
遣水衡都尉吕破胡募吏民及发犍为、蜀郡奔命击益州，大破之。
有司请河内属冀州，河东属并州。
秋七月，赦天下，赐民百户牛、酒。
大雨，渭桥绝。
八月，齐孝王孙刘泽谋反，欲杀青州刺史隽不疑，发觉，皆伏诛。
迁不疑为京兆尹，赐钱百万。
九月丙子，车骑将军日磾薨。
闰月，遣故廷尉王平等五人持节行郡国，举贤良，问民所疾苦、冤、失职者。
冬，无冰。
二年春正月，大将军光、左将军桀皆以前捕斩反虏重合侯马通功封，光为博陆侯，桀为安阳侯。
以宗室毋在位者，举茂才刘辟强、刘长乐皆为光禄大夫，辟强守长乐卫尉。
translation: 
There are differences in the amount of money given to princes, princes, and clans.
On March 23, Emperor Zhao started farming in Goudun Field.
The king of Yan, the king of Guangling and the eldest princess of Eyi were granted 13,000 households each.
In summer, the Yunling Garden Temple was built for the Queen Mother.
The twenty-four cities of Liantou, Guzhen, and Zangke that belonged to Yizhou rebelled.
The imperial court sent Shuiheng Captain Lu Pohu to recruit officials and the elite soldiers from Jianwei and Shu counties and immediately went to the front line of Yizhou to defeat the rebels.
The competent administrative division department petitioned Hanoi to belong to Jizhou and Hedong to Bingzhou.
In the seventh month of autumn, a general amnesty will be given to the whole country, and every 100 households will be given one cow and wine.
It rained heavily and flash floods broke through the Wei Bridge.
In August, Liu Ze, the grandson of Prince Xiao of Qi, rebelled and intended to kill Jun Buyi, the governor of Qingzhou. He was discovered and executed.
There is no doubt that Sheng Yu is Jing Zhaoyin, and he will be rewarded with millions of dollars.
On September 2, the chariot general Jin Rishidan passed away.
In the intercalated tenth month, the imperial court sent five people, Wang Pingping and Wang Pingping, from the former court, to patrol the county and country with talisman festivals to inspect the virtuous and investigate the suffering of the people, unjust cases, dereliction of duty and other matters.
Winters are warm and free of ice.
In the first month of the spring of the second year, the general Huo Guang and the left general Shangguan Jie both captured and killed the rebels and reunited Hou Ma Tong with meritorious service. Huo Guang was the Marquis of Bolu, and Shangguan Jie was the Marquis of Anyang.
Among the clan members who were not in power, Liu Piqiang and Liu Changle were recommended as Guanglu officials, and Piqiang was recommended as Changle palace guard.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
三月，遣使者振贷贫民毋种、食者。
秋八月，诏曰： 往年灾害多，今年蚕、麦伤，所振贷种、食勿收责，毋令民出今年田租。
冬，发习战射士诣朔方，调故吏将屯田张掖郡。
三年春二月，有星孛于西北。
秋，募民徙云陵，赐钱、田、宅。
冬十月，凤皇集东海，遣使者祠其处。
十一月壬辰朔，日有蚀之。
四年春三月甲寅，立皇后上官氏。
赦天下。
辞讼在后二年前，皆勿听治。
夏六月，皇后见高庙。
赐长公主、丞相、将军、列侯、中二千石以下及郎吏、宗室钱、帛各有差。
徙三辅富人云陵，赐钱，户十万。
秋七月，诏曰： 比岁不登，民匮于食，流庸未尽还，往时令民共出马，其止勿出。
诸给中都官者，且减之。
冬，遣大鸿胪田广明击益州。
translation: 
In March, envoys were sent to provide relief to the poor who had no seeds or food.
In August of autumn, an edict was issued saying: There were many disasters in previous years, but silkworms and wheat were injured this year. The seeds and grains provided for relief will not be collected, and the land rent for this year will be exempted.
In winter, he dispatched archery masters to Shuofang and sent officers and generals who had previously held official positions to farm in Zhangye County.
In the spring and March of the third year, a comet appeared in the northwest sky.
In autumn, households were recruited to move into Yunling and given money, land and houses.
In October of winter, phoenixes gather in the East China Sea and send envoys to the place where phoenixes gather to pray.
On the first day of November, a partial solar eclipse occurred.
On March 25th in the spring of the fourth year, the queen was named Shangguan.
Forgive the world.
Those who resigned before the second year of Emperor Wu's reign were withdrawn on their own initiative.
In June of summer, the queen worshiped Gaozu Temple.
There are differences in the coins given to the eldest princess, prime minister, generals, princes, those with less than two thousand dan, and to Lang, officials and clan members.
Move the wealthy households in Sanfu to Yunling and reward them with a reward of 100,000 yuan per household.
In the autumn of July, an edict was issued saying: Due to the poor harvest and lack of food in recent years, all the emigrated people have not been able to return to their hometowns. In the past, the people's tribute was ordered to come out, but now it is suspended.
The number of horses supplied to various government offices in the capital was reduced.
In winter, Dahong and Tian Guangming were sent to attack Yizhou's rebellion.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
廷尉李种坐故纵死罪弃市。
五年春正月，追尊皇太后父为顺成侯。
夏阳男子张延年诣北阙，自称卫太子，诬罔，要斩。
夏，罢天下亭母马及马弩关。
六月，封皇后父骠骑将军上官安为桑乐侯。
诏曰： 朕以眇身获保宗庙，战战栗栗，夙兴夜寐，修古帝王之事，诵《保傅传》、《孝经》、《论语》、《尚书》，未云有明。
其令三辅、太常举贤良各二人，郡国文学高第各一人。
赐中二千石以下至吏、民爵，各有差。
罢儋耳、真番郡。
秋，大鸿胪广明、军正王平击益州，斩首捕虏三万余人，获畜产五万余头。
六年春正月，上耕于上林。
二月，诏有司问郡国所举贤良、文学民所疾苦。议罢盐、铁、榷酤。
栘中监苏武前使匈奴，留单于庭十九岁乃还，奉使全节，以武为典属国，赐钱百万。
translation: 
Tingwei Li Zhong was executed for committing the crime of intentional connivance.
In the first month of the spring of the fifth year, the empress dowager's father was posthumously given the title of Marquis Shuncheng.
Zhang Yannian, a man from Xia Yang, went to Beique and claimed to be Prince Wei. He falsely accused him and had him cut in half.
In the summer, the ban on raising mares and horses with a height of five feet and six inches and a crossbow of ten stones was lifted in all pavilions in the world.
In June, the queen's father, the cavalry general Shangguan An, was granted the title of Marquis of Sangle.
The edict said: I succeeded to the throne with little virtue. I fought tremblingly, got up early and went to bed late, and studied the ancient sage emperors and sage kings' expositions on governing the world. I know the "Bao Fu Zhuan" by myself, but I have not yet fully understood the "Analects of Confucius", "Shang Shu", and "The Classic of Filial Piety".
Now we order Sanfu and Taichang to appoint two virtuous people each, and one person each who is a high-ranking scholar in the county and state.
Grants of less than 2,000 stones to the level of civil servants and nobles vary.
The two counties of Dan'er and Zhenfan were abolished.
In the autumn, Dahong Tian Guangming and Junzheng Wang put down the Yizhou rebellion, beheaded and captured more than 30,000 people, and seized more than 50,000 livestock.
In the spring and first month of the sixth year, Emperor Zhao was farming on his own in Shanglin.
In February, the imperial edict was issued to ask the virtuous literature recommended by the county and state, to investigate with them the sufferings of the people, and to decide to terminate the monopoly and patent rights of salt, iron, and wine.
Su Wu, the supervisor of Muduo, was sent as an envoy to the Huns during the reign of Emperor Wu. He was imprisoned by the Huns for nineteen years before returning. He fulfilled his mission and insisted on the Han Dynasty. He appointed Su Wu as a vassal state and gave him one million in money.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
夏，旱，大雩，不得举火。
秋七月，罢榷酤官，令民得以律占租，卖酒升四钱。
以边塞阔远，取天水、陇西、张掖郡各二县置金城郡。
诏曰： 钩町侯毋波率其君长、人民击反者，斩首捕虏有功。其立毋波为钩町王。
大鸿胪广明将率有功，赐爵关内侯，食邑。
元凤元年春，长公主共养劳苦，复以蓝田益长公主汤沐邑。
泗水戴王前甍，以毋嗣，国除。后宫有遗腹子爰，相、内史不奏言，上闻而怜之，立爰为泗水王。
相、内史皆下狱。
三月，赐郡国所选有行义者涿郡韩福等五人帛，人五十匹，遣归。
诏曰： 朕闵劳以官职之事，其务修孝、弟以孝乡里。
令郡、县常以正月赐羊、酒。
有不幸者赐衣被一袭，祠以中牢。
translation: 
In summer, when drought occurs, sacrifices are held to pray for rain, and the people temporarily refrain from raising fire to suppress yang and help yin.
In the seventh month of autumn, the officials responsible for selling liquor are exempted, and the people are ordered to pay rent according to regulations. When selling wine, you pay a tax of 4 cents per liter.
In view of the vastness of the frontier, Jincheng County was established from Tianshui, Longxi and Zhangye counties.
Emperor Zhao issued an edict saying: Wubo, Marquis of Gouding, led his soldiers and people to put down the rebellion, and had meritorious service in beheading and capturing captives. Wubo is now named King of Gouding.
General Dahong Tian Guangming commanded and quelled the rebellion, and was granted the title of marquis in the pass and the title of city.
In the spring of the first year of Yuanfeng BC, the eldest princess's support was very meager, so Lantian was added to her Tang Muyi.
King Dai of Surabaya had passed away, and because he had no children, his feudal title was revoked. There was a posthumous son, Liu Huoyuan, in the harem of the Queen of Surabaya. The prime minister and internal history of the country were not truthful. When Emperor Zhao learned of this, he was very compassionate and made Huoyuan the King of Surabaya.
The prime minister and internal history of Surabaya were sentenced to jail for not truthfully reporting the situation.
In March, Han Fu and five other people from Zhuo County who were selected by the county for their righteous deeds were given silks, fifty pieces each, and were sent back to their place of origin.
The edict was issued saying: I cannot bear to work Han Fu and others in official positions, and hope that they will practice filial piety and act righteously to serve as role models for the countryside.
Inform the counties and counties to give them sheep wine as condolences in the first month of every year.
Those who died among them were given clothes and quilts, and sacrifices were made with pigs and sheep.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
武都氐人反，遣执金吾马适建、龙额侯韩增、大鸿胪广明将三辅、太常徒，皆免刑击之。
秋七月乙亥晦，日有蚀之，既。
八月，改始元为元凤。
九月，鄂邑长公主、燕王旦与左将军上官桀、桀子票骑将军安、御史大夫桑弘羊皆谋反，伏诛。
初，桀、安父子与大将军光争权，欲害之，诈使人为燕王旦上书言光罪。
时上年十四，觉其诈。
后有谮光者，上辄怒曰： 大将军国家忠臣，先帝所属，敢有谮毁者，坐之。
光由是得尽忠。
语在燕王、霍光《传》。
冬十月，诏曰： 左将军安阳侯桀、票骑将军桑乐侯安、御史大夫弘羊皆数以邪枉干辅政，大将军不听，而怀怨望，与燕王通谋，置驿往来相约结。
燕王遣寿西长、孙纵之等赂遗长公主、丁外人、谒者杜延年、大将军长史公孙遗等，交通私书，共谋令长公主置酒，伏兵杀大将军光，征立燕王为天子，大逆毋道。
故稻田使者燕仓先发觉，以告大司农敞，敞告谏大夫延年，延年以闻。
丞相征事任宫手捕斩桀，丞相少史王寿诱将安入府门，皆已伏诛，吏民得以安。
封延年、仓、宫、寿皆为列侯。
又曰： 燕王迷惑失道，前与齐王子刘泽等为逆，抑而不扬，望王反道自新，今乃与长公主及左将军桀等谋危宗庙。王及公主皆自伏辜。其赦王太子建、公主子文信及宗室子与燕王、上官桀等谋反父母同产当坐者，皆免为庶人。
其吏为桀等所诖误，未发觉在吏者，除其罪。
二年夏四月，上自建章宫徙未央宫，大置酒。
赐郎从宫帛，及宗室子钱，人二十万。
translation: 
The Di people in Wudu rebelled. The imperial court sent Jinwu Ma Shijian, Long'ehou Han Zeng, and Dahonglu Tian Guangming to lead the three assistants and Taichang prisoners to exempt them from their crimes and attack in rebellion.
On July 30th in autumn, there will be a partial solar eclipse first and then a total solar eclipse.
In August, the first year of the reign was changed to the Yuanfeng year.
In September, the eldest princess of Hubei, King Liu Dan of Yan, General Shangguan Jie of the left, Shangguan An, the hussar general of Jiezi, and Sang Hongyang, the imperial censor, were all executed for their rebellion.
It turned out that father and son Jie and An were fighting for power with the general Huo Guang and wanted to harm Huo Guang, so they deceived people to write to the court in the name of King Dan of Yan to expose Huo Guang's crimes.
Emperor Zhao was fourteen years old at this time and discovered his fraud.
Later, someone falsely accused Huo Guang, and Emperor Zhao was furious and said: "General, a loyal minister of the country, entrusted by the late emperor. Anyone who dares to make false accusations will be held accountable."
Huo Guang was thus able to be loyal to the best of his ability.
The incident was recorded in the biography of King Yan and Huo Guang.
In the tenth month of winter, Emperor Zhao issued an edict saying: The left general Anyang Hou Jie, the hussar general Sang Lehou An, and the imperial censor Hong Yang all repeatedly interfered with the government's affairs with evil deeds. If the general did not obey his instructions, they became dissatisfied and secretly colluded with the king of Yan. They set up special envoys to go back and forth and rebelled against the party.
The King of Yan sent Shou Xichang, Sun Zongzhi and others to bribe the eldest princess, Ding Weiren, the visitor Du Yannian, the general Shi Gongsun Yi and others to deliver the secret letter, and jointly planned to have the eldest princess hold a banquet to entertain the general Huo Guang, and took the opportunity to ambush and kill her. Later, he conscripted King Yan as the emperor, which was really treason.
Yancang, the envoy from the rice fields, first discovered it and quickly reported it to Yang Chang, the chief agricultural officer. Yang Chang urgently informed the doctor Du Yannian, and Yannian hurriedly reported it to the Ming Emperor.
The Prime Minister Zheng Gong personally captured and beheaded Shangguan Jie. The Prime Minister's Young Master Wang Shou lured Shangguan An into the palace and killed him together, so that the officials and the people were able to turn the crisis into safety.
For this reason, Du Yannian, Ren Gong and Wang Shou were granted the title of marquis.
The edict also said: The king of Yan had lost his wits due to Li Ling, and he had rebelled against Prince Liu Ze of Qi and others. At that time, he suppressed his crimes in the hope that he could change his ways. Now he conspired with the eldest princess, Zuo General Jie and others to harm the ancestral temple.
His subordinates were deceived by Shangguan Jie and others and coerced into participating in the rebellion, but if no specific facts were documented, they were exempted from criminal punishment.
In April of the second year of summer, Emperor Zhao moved from Jianzhang Palace to Weiyang Palace and held a banquet for all the ministers.
The man was given official silk and the clan members were given money, each of which was 200,000 yuan.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
吏民献牛、酒者赐帛，人一匹。
六月，赦天下。
诏曰： 朕闵百姓未赡，前年减漕三百万石。
颇省乘舆马及苑马，以补边郡三辅传马。
其令郡国毋敛今年马口钱，三辅、太常郡得以叔、粟当赋。
三年春正月，泰山有大石自起立，上林有柳树枯僵自起生。
罢中牟苑赋贫民。
诏曰： 乃者民被水灾，颇匮于食，朕虚仓廪，使使者振困乏。
其止四年毋漕。
三年以前所振贷，非丞相、御史所请，边郡受牛者勿收责。
夏四月，少府徐仁、廷尉王平、左冯翊贾胜胡皆坐纵反者，仁自杀，平、胜胡皆要斩。
冬，辽东乌桓反，以中朗将范明友为度辽将军，将北边七郡，郡二千骑击之。
四年春正月丁亥，帝加元服，见于高庙。
translation: 
The officials and the people were given a piece of silk for each person who offered cattle and wine.
In June, there is a general amnesty.
The edict was issued: "I have no sympathy for the people, so I reduced the province and transferred 3 million shi to the capital the year before last."
Appropriate savings should be made on self-riding horses and garden horses to supplement the three auxiliary and border post horses.
The county is now ordered not to collect this year's horse mouth money. Sanfu and Taichang should be allowed to use Shu and Li as tribute money when paying taxes.
In the first month of the spring of the third year, a large stone stood up on its own in Mount Tai, and a willow tree in Shanglinyuan withered and grew green leaves again.
Eliminate taxes for poor households in Zhongmouyuan.
The edict said: Some time ago, the people suffered from floods and were in great difficulty with food rations. I transferred food from the national treasury and sent special personnel to provide relief to households in need.
The grain that should be handed over in the fourth year is now waived.
The relief loan issued three years ago was personally given by me, and the immigrants in the border counties who were working with oxen for plowing did not pay their debts.
In April of summer, Shaofu Xu Ren, Tingwei Wang Ping, and Zuo Fengyi Jia Shenghu were all guilty of condoning rebellion. Xu Ren committed suicide, and Wang Ping and Jia Shenghu were both cut in half.
In winter, Wuhuan rebelled in Liaodong. He sent Zhonglang General Fan Mingyou as the general of Liao Dynasty and led 2,000 cavalry soldiers from seven counties in the north to pacify Ding.
On the second day of the first lunar month in the fourth year of spring, Emperor Zhao paid a visit to the Gaozu Temple.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
赐诸侯王、丞相、大将军、列侯、宗室下至吏、民金、帛、牛、酒各有差。
赐中二千石以下及天下民爵。毋收四年、五年口赋。
三年以前逋更赋未入者，皆勿收。令天下酺五日。
甲戌，丞相千秋薨。
夏四月，诏曰： 度辽将军明友前以羌骑校尉将羌王、侯、君、长以下击益州反虏，后复率击武都反氐，今破乌桓，斩虏获生，有功。
其封明友为平陵侯。
平乐监傅介子持节使，诛斩楼兰王安，归首县北阙，封义阳侯。
五月丁丑，孝文庙正殿火，上及群臣皆素服。发中二千石将五校作治，六月成。
太常及庙令、丞、郎吏皆劾大不敬，会赦，太常轑阳侯德免为庶人。
六月，赦天下。
五年春正月，广陵王来朝，益国万一千户，赐钱二千万，黄金二百斤，剑二，安车一，乘马二驷。
translation: 
Give gold, silk, cattle and wine to all princes, kings, prime ministers, generals, princes, clans, and officials and people, each with their own differences.
He will be awarded with a title of less than 2,000 dan and nobility for all subjects in the world, and the payment of population tax for the fourth and fifth years will be stopped.
Those who have not paid the new tax three years ago will be exempted from payment. He ordered the whole world to feast for five days.
On February 21, Prime Minister Tian Qianqiu passed away.
In April of summer, Emperor Zhao issued an edict: When General Mingyou of Du Liao was serving as the captain of the Qiang cavalry school, he led the Qiang princes, princes and commanders to attack Yizhou to rebel against the captives. Later, he led the Qiang army to attack Wudu to rebel against the Di. Now he defeated Wuhuan and killed many prisoners, which is a meritorious service.
Specially ennoble Mingyou as Pinglinghou.
Fu Jiezi, the supervisor of Pingyue, went out as an envoy to kill the Loulan Wang An who was disobedient to the Han Dynasty. His head was hung in the North Tower and he was now named the Marquis of Yiyang.
In May, a fire broke out in the main hall of Xiaowen Temple. Emperor Zhao and his ministers all wore plain clothes and sent two thousand stones to lead the soldiers of the five schools to repair it, which was completed in six days.
Taichang and the imperial minister were both accused of dereliction of duty. When the general amnesty happened, Taichang Hou De of Liaoyang was exempted and became a commoner.
In June, there is a general amnesty.
In the first month of the spring of the fifth year, King Guangling went to the capital to pay homage, and granted a thousand more households in his kingdom. He also gave him 20 million yuan in money, 200 jins of gold, two sword handles, a chariot, and eight horses.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
夏，大旱。
六月，发三辅及郡国恶少年吏有告劾亡者，屯辽东。
秋，罢象郡，分属郁林、牂柯。
冬十一月，大雷。
十二月庚戌，丞相薨。
六年春正月，募郡国徒筑辽东玄菟城。
夏，赦天下。
诏曰： 夫谷贱伤农，今三辅、太常谷减贱，其令以叔粟当今年赋。
右将军张安世宿卫忠谨，封富平侯。
乌桓复犯塞，遣度辽将军范明友击之。
元平元年春二月，诏曰： 天下以农、桑为本。
日者省用，罢不急官，减外徭，耕、桑者益众，而百姓未能家给，朕甚愍焉。
其减口赋钱。
有司奏请减什三，上许之。
甲申晨，有流星，大如月，众星皆随西行。
夏四月癸未，帝崩于未央宫。
六月壬申，葬平陵。
赞曰：昔周成以孺子继统，而有管、蔡四国流言之变。
translation: 
Summer, severe drought.
In June, young criminals from Sanfu and various counties who had fled due to reports were sent to garrison Liaodong.
In autumn, Xiang County was abolished and belonged to Yulin and Zoke County.
Winter, November, thunder.
On December 6, Prime Minister Wang Xin passed away.
In the spring and first month of the sixth year, prisoners from the county were recruited to build Xuantu City in Liaodong.
Xia, forgive the sinners in the world.
The edict was issued: "Generally, low prices of grain will hurt farmers. Now that grain prices have dropped in Sanfu and Taichang, various regions are specially ordered to use grain as tax payment."
The right general Zhang Anshi loyally and cautiously executed the guard and was granted the title of Marquis of Fuping.
Wuhuan once again invaded the border fortress and sent General Fan Mingyou, the general from Liao Dynasty, to lead the pursuit.
In the spring and February of the first year of Yuanping, Emperor Zhao issued an edict saying: The world is based on farming and mulberry.
In the past period, we have saved money, cut redundant personnel, and reduced additional taxes. As a result, the number of people engaged in farming has increased, but the people are still not self-sufficient. I am deeply disturbed.
It is now decided to reduce the oral tax payment.
Someone petitioned for a reduction of three-tenths, and the emperor agreed.
On February 17, there was a meteor in the morning, as big as the moon, and the stars followed the meteor westward.
On April 17th in the summer, Emperor Zhao died in Weiyang Palace.
On June 7, he was buried in Pingling.
Ban Gu commented: In the past, King Cheng of Zhou inherited the throne with a young son, but there were rumors from Guan and Cai, slandering the Duke of Zhou who served as regent and assisted the young master.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
孝昭幼年即位，亦有燕、盍、上官逆乱之谋。
成王不疑周公，孝昭委任霍光，各因其时以成名，大矣哉！
承孝武奢侈余敝师旅之后，海内虚耗，户口减半，光知时务之要，轻徭薄赋，与民休息。
至始元、元凤之间，匈奴和亲，百姓充实。
举贤良、文学，问民所疾苦，议盐、铁而罢榷酤，尊号曰 昭 ，不亦宜乎！
translation: 
When Emperor Zhao succeeded to the throne at a young age, Yan, Yong, and Shangguan also conspired to rebel and slander Huo Guang, who was regent and assistant to the young emperor.
King Cheng did not doubt Duke Zhou, and Emperor Zhao appointed Huo Guang. It is remarkable that both monarchs and ministers can become famous in their own time!
After Emperor Zhao succeeded Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty, he was very happy with his achievements and went on a military expedition. The domestic economy was in depression and the population was reduced by half. However, Huo Guangneng focused on the most urgent tasks, did light corvees and low taxes, and rested with the people.
During the Shiyuan and Yuanfeng years, the country made peace with the Xiongnu on the outside and enriched the people on the inside.
He also recommended virtuous literature, inquired about the sufferings of the people, stopped selling salt, iron and wine, and did not compete with the people for profit. His posthumous title was Zhao, which is very appropriate!


