Summary uses chunk [0, 5]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝昭皇帝，武帝少子也。
母曰赵婕妤，本以有奇异得幸，及生帝，亦奇异。
语在《外戚传》。武帝末，戾太子败，燕王旦、广陵王胥行骄嫚，后元二年二月上疾病，遂立昭帝为太子，年八岁。
以侍中奉车都尉霍光为大司马大将军，受遗诏辅少主。
明日，武帝崩。戊辰，太子即皇帝位，谒高庙。
帝姊鄂邑公主益汤沐邑，为长公主，共养省中。
大将军光秉政，领尚书事，车骑将军金日磾、左将军上官桀副焉。
夏六月，赦天下。
秋七月，有星孛于东方。
济北王宽有罪，自杀。
赐长公主及宗室昆弟各有差。追遵赵婕妤为皇太后，起云陵。
冬，匈奴入朔方，杀略吏民。
发军屯西河，左将军桀行北边。
始元元年春二月，黄鹄下建章宫太液池中。公卿上寿。
translation: 
Emperor Zhao of the Han Dynasty was the youngest son of Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty.
The mother is Zhao Jieyu. She was favored because of her strange aura. When she gave birth to Emperor Zhao, there was also something strange about her.
In the last years of Emperor Wu, the violent prince Liu Ju was deposed. King Liu Dan of Yan and King Liu Xu of Guangling both behaved arrogantly. Emperor Wu fell seriously ill in February of the second year of the Yuan Dynasty, so he made Emperor Zhao the prince. He was eight years old at the time.
As a servant, Huo Guang, the captain of the chariot, was appointed as the general of the Sima army. He was ordered by Emperor Wu to assist the young master.
Emperor Wu died the next day, and on February 15th, the prince succeeded to the throne and paid homage to the great ancestor in the temple.
Princess Eyi, the sister of Emperor Zhao, was granted the title of Tang Muyi, honored as the eldest princess, and was enshrined in the palace.
The general Huo Guang presides over the state affairs and is in charge of the secretarial affairs. The chariot and cavalry general Jin Rixi and the left general Shangguan Jie are his deputy.
In the sixth month of summer, forgive all sinners in the world.
In autumn and July, a comet appears in the eastern sky.
Liu Kuan, the king of Jibei, was guilty and committed suicide.
The eldest princess and her clan brothers were given various rewards, and Zhao Jieyu was posthumously given the title of empress dowager, and a Yunyang mausoleum was built for her.
In winter, the Xiongnu invaded Shuofang, killing and plundering the officials and civilians.
The imperial court sent troops to garrison in Xihe, and left general Shangguan Jie inspected the northern border.
In the spring of February of the first year of the First Yuan Dynasty, yellow swans were perched in the Taiye Pond of Jianzhang Palace. The minister thought it was a symbol of auspiciousness and wished the emperor long life.

summary:
summary line 0: Emperor Zhao of Han, youngest son of Emperor Wu, ascended the throne at age eight after his father’s death in 87 BCE. Huo Guang, appointed regent, managed state affairs with deputies Jin Rixi and Shangguan Jie. Early reign events included amnesties, a comet sighting, and Xiongnu raids repelled by garrisons. Auspicious signs like yellow swans prompted celebrations, while rebellions in Yizhou and by Liu Ze were suppressed. Reforms reduced taxes, exempted land rent, and provided relief to the poor. In 81 BCE, Emperor Zhao ended state monopolies on salt, iron, and wine after consulting virtuous scholars. Su Wu returned from 19 years of captivity among the Xiongnu and was rewarded.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
武都氐人反，遣执金吾马适建、龙额侯韩增、大鸿胪广明将三辅、太常徒，皆免刑击之。
秋七月乙亥晦，日有蚀之，既。
八月，改始元为元凤。
九月，鄂邑长公主、燕王旦与左将军上官桀、桀子票骑将军安、御史大夫桑弘羊皆谋反，伏诛。
初，桀、安父子与大将军光争权，欲害之，诈使人为燕王旦上书言光罪。
时上年十四，觉其诈。
后有谮光者，上辄怒曰： 大将军国家忠臣，先帝所属，敢有谮毁者，坐之。
光由是得尽忠。
语在燕王、霍光《传》。
冬十月，诏曰： 左将军安阳侯桀、票骑将军桑乐侯安、御史大夫弘羊皆数以邪枉干辅政，大将军不听，而怀怨望，与燕王通谋，置驿往来相约结。
燕王遣寿西长、孙纵之等赂遗长公主、丁外人、谒者杜延年、大将军长史公孙遗等，交通私书，共谋令长公主置酒，伏兵杀大将军光，征立燕王为天子，大逆毋道。
故稻田使者燕仓先发觉，以告大司农敞，敞告谏大夫延年，延年以闻。
丞相征事任宫手捕斩桀，丞相少史王寿诱将安入府门，皆已伏诛，吏民得以安。
封延年、仓、宫、寿皆为列侯。
又曰： 燕王迷惑失道，前与齐王子刘泽等为逆，抑而不扬，望王反道自新，今乃与长公主及左将军桀等谋危宗庙。王及公主皆自伏辜。其赦王太子建、公主子文信及宗室子与燕王、上官桀等谋反父母同产当坐者，皆免为庶人。
其吏为桀等所诖误，未发觉在吏者，除其罪。
二年夏四月，上自建章宫徙未央宫，大置酒。
赐郎从宫帛，及宗室子钱，人二十万。
translation: 
The Di people in Wudu rebelled. The imperial court sent Jinwu Ma Shijian, Long'ehou Han Zeng, and Dahonglu Tian Guangming to lead the three assistants and Taichang prisoners to exempt them from their crimes and attack in rebellion.
On July 30th in autumn, there will be a partial solar eclipse first and then a total solar eclipse.
In August, the first year of the reign was changed to the Yuanfeng year.
In September, the eldest princess of Hubei, King Liu Dan of Yan, General Shangguan Jie of the left, Shangguan An, the hussar general of Jiezi, and Sang Hongyang, the imperial censor, were all executed for their rebellion.
It turned out that father and son Jie and An were fighting for power with the general Huo Guang and wanted to harm Huo Guang, so they deceived people to write to the court in the name of King Dan of Yan to expose Huo Guang's crimes.
Emperor Zhao was fourteen years old at this time and discovered his fraud.
Later, someone falsely accused Huo Guang, and Emperor Zhao was furious and said: "General, a loyal minister of the country, entrusted by the late emperor. Anyone who dares to make false accusations will be held accountable."
Huo Guang was thus able to be loyal to the best of his ability.
The incident was recorded in the biography of King Yan and Huo Guang.
In the tenth month of winter, Emperor Zhao issued an edict saying: The left general Anyang Hou Jie, the hussar general Sang Lehou An, and the imperial censor Hong Yang all repeatedly interfered with the government's affairs with evil deeds. If the general did not obey his instructions, they became dissatisfied and secretly colluded with the king of Yan. They set up special envoys to go back and forth and rebelled against the party.
The King of Yan sent Shou Xichang, Sun Zongzhi and others to bribe the eldest princess, Ding Weiren, the visitor Du Yannian, the general Shi Gongsun Yi and others to deliver the secret letter, and jointly planned to have the eldest princess hold a banquet to entertain the general Huo Guang, and took the opportunity to ambush and kill her. Later, he conscripted King Yan as the emperor, which was really treason.
Yancang, the envoy from the rice fields, first discovered it and quickly reported it to Yang Chang, the chief agricultural officer. Yang Chang urgently informed the doctor Du Yannian, and Yannian hurriedly reported it to the Ming Emperor.
The Prime Minister Zheng Gong personally captured and beheaded Shangguan Jie. The Prime Minister's Young Master Wang Shou lured Shangguan An into the palace and killed him together, so that the officials and the people were able to turn the crisis into safety.
For this reason, Du Yannian, Ren Gong and Wang Shou were granted the title of marquis.
The edict also said: The king of Yan had lost his wits due to Li Ling, and he had rebelled against Prince Liu Ze of Qi and others. At that time, he suppressed his crimes in the hope that he could change his ways. Now he conspired with the eldest princess, Zuo General Jie and others to harm the ancestral temple.
His subordinates were deceived by Shangguan Jie and others and coerced into participating in the rebellion, but if no specific facts were documented, they were exempted from criminal punishment.
In April of the second year of summer, Emperor Zhao moved from Jianzhang Palace to Weiyang Palace and held a banquet for all the ministers.
The man was given official silk and the clan members were given money, each of which was 200,000 yuan.

summary:
summary line 1: In 80 BCE, a major conspiracy involving King Liu Dan of Yan, Princess Eyi, Shangguan Jie, and others to assassinate Huo Guang was foiled. Emperor Zhao, then 14, exposed the plot, leading to executions of the conspirators. Huo Guang’s loyalty was vindicated, and he continued as regent. Subsequent years saw further reforms: tax reductions, amnesties, and agricultural support. Emperor Zhao died in 74 BCE at age 21, buried in Pingling. Ban Gu praised his reign for restoring stability after Emperor Wu’s costly campaigns, implementing light corvée and low taxes, and fostering peace with the Xiongnu while enriching the people.

