Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 2, 4, 12, 14]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
陈骞子舆裴秀子頠秀从弟楷楷子宪
陈骞，临淮东阳人也。
父矫，魏司徒。
矫本广陵刘氏，为外祖陈氏所养，因而改焉。
骞沈厚有智谋。
初，矫为尚书令，侍中刘晔见幸于魏明帝，谮矫专权。
矫忧惧，以问骞。
骞曰： 主上明圣，大人大臣，今若不合意，不过不作公耳。
后帝意果释，骞尚少，为夏侯玄所侮，意色自若，玄以此异之。
起家尚书郎，迁中山、安平太守，并著称绩。
征为相国司马、长史、御吏中丞，迁尚书，封安国亭侯。
蜀贼寇陇右，以尚书持节行征蜀将军，破贼而还。
会诸葛诞之乱，复以尚书行安东将军。
寿春平，拜使持节、都督淮北诸军事、安东将军，进爵广陵侯。
转都督豫州诸军事、豫州刺史，持节、将军如故。
又转都督江南诸军事，徙都督荆州诸军事、征南大将军，封郯侯。
武帝受禅，以佐命之勋，进车骑将军，封高平郡公，迁侍中、大将军，出为都督扬州诸军事，余如故，假黄钺。
攻拔吴枳里城，破涂中屯戍。赐骞兄子惺爵关中侯。
咸宁初，迁太尉，转大司马。
骞因入朝，言于帝曰： 胡烈、牵弘皆勇而无谋，强于自用，非绥边之材，将为国耻。
愿陛下详之。
时弘为扬州刺史，不承顺骞命。
帝以为不协相构，于是征弘，既至，寻复以为凉州刺史。
骞窃叹息，以为必败。
二人后果失羌戎之和，皆被寇丧没，征讨连岁，仅而得定，帝乃悔之。
骞少有度量，含垢匿瑕，所在有绩。
与贾充、石苞、裴秀等俱为心膂，而骞智度过之，充等亦自以为不及也。
translation: 
Chen Qian’s son, Pei Xiuzi, and his younger brother Kaikai Zixian
Chen Qian was a native of Shuyang, Linhuai.
His father, Chen Jiao, was a Situ of Wei.
Chen Jiao was originally from the Liu family in Guangling, and was raised by his maternal grandfather Chen, so he changed his surname.
Chen Qian is deep and resourceful.
At the beginning, Chen Jiao was appointed as Shangshu Ling, and his attendant Liu Ye was favored by Emperor Wei Ming, who falsely accused Chen Jiao of monopolizing power.
Chen Jiao was worried and fearful, so he asked Chen Qian.
Chen Qian said: The emperor is wise and his father is a minister. If things don't go as planned, it's just not doing justice.
Later, the emperor's doubts were indeed eliminated. When Chen Qian was a boy, he was insulted by Xia Houxuan, but he looked calm, so Xia Houxuan thought he was unusual.
He initially served as an official as Shangshu Lang, and later became the Grand Administrator of Zhongshan and Anping, both of which had remarkable achievements.
He was promoted to Sima, Changshi, and Yushi Zhongcheng of the Prime Minister. He was promoted to Shangshu and was granted the title of Tinghou of Anguo.
When the Shu Kingdom invaded Longyou, Chen Qian used the title of Shangshu Zhijie and conquered the Shu generals on his behalf, defeated the enemy and returned to the dynasty.
Coinciding with the Zhuge Dan Rebellion, he also acted as Minister of General Anshu.
Shouchun was pacified, and he paid homage to the envoy Chijie, the commander-in-chief of all military affairs in Huaibei, and the general Andong, and his title was promoted to Marquis of Guangling.
He was transferred to the governorship of Yuzhou's military affairs and the governor of Yuzhou, but his positions of Chijie and general remained.
He was also transferred to be the Commander-in-Chief of the military affairs in the south of the Yangtze River, the Commander-in-Chief of the military affairs in Jingzhou, the General of the Conquest of the South, and was granted the title of Marquis of Tan.
Emperor Wu accepted the abdication, and Chen Qian was promoted to General of Chariots and Cavalry for his merits in assisting Tianming. He was granted the title of Duke of Gaoping County, promoted to the rank of Shizhong, Grand General, and served as the Commander-in-Chief of Yangzhou's military affairs. The rest of his official positions remained the same, with the fake Huangyue.
He captured the city of Zhili in the state of Wu, defeated Tu Zhong's troops, and granted Chen Qian's brother's son, Chen Kui, the title of Marquis of Guanzhong.
In the early years of Xianning, he was promoted to Taiwei and transferred to Grand Sima.
Chen Qian took the opportunity to enter the court and said to the emperor: Hu Lie and Qian Hong are both brave and overconfident. They are not capable of stabilizing border defense and will bring shame to the country.
I hope your Majesty will take a closer look.
At that time, Qian Hong was appointed governor of Yangzhou and did not obey Chen Qian's orders.
The emperor thought that the two men were at odds with each other, so he recruited Qian Hong. After his arrival, he soon became the governor of Liangzhou.
Chen Qian sighed privately, thinking that this move would definitely lead to failure.
The two men later lost their peace with the Qiang Rong, and both died at the hands of enemy invaders. After years of conquests, they could only achieve peace, and the emperor regretted it very much.
Chen Qian was magnanimous, tolerant and generous when he was young, and had achievements in any position.
He, Maichong, Shi Bao, Pei Xiu and others were all assistant ministers, but Chen Qian was superior to them in resourcefulness, and Maichong and others thought they were not as good as him.

summary:
summary line 0: Chen Qian, a native of Shuyang, Linhuai, was the son of Chen Jiao, a Situ of Wei. Chen Jiao, originally from the Liu family, was raised by his maternal grandfather and changed his surname. Chen Qian was known for his depth and resourcefulness. Early in his career, he advised his father during a false accusation by Liu Ye, which was later resolved. As a youth, he remained calm when insulted by Xia Houxuan, impressing him. He served as Shangshu Lang, Grand Administrator of Zhongshan and Anping, achieving remarkable success. He rose to Sima, Changshi, and Yushi Zhongcheng, then Shangshu, and was granted the title of Tinghou of Anguo. During the Shu invasion of Longyou, he led forces to victory. He also acted against the Zhuge Dan rebellion. After pacifying Shouchun, he was appointed envoy Chijie, commander of Huaibei military affairs, and General Andong, with his title promoted to Marquis of Guangling. He later governed Yuzhou and was transferred to command military affairs south of the Yangtze and in Jingzhou, becoming General of the Conquest of the South and Marquis of Tan.

Chunk 0: 
original: 
陈骞子舆裴秀子頠秀从弟楷楷子宪
陈骞，临淮东阳人也。
父矫，魏司徒。
矫本广陵刘氏，为外祖陈氏所养，因而改焉。
骞沈厚有智谋。
初，矫为尚书令，侍中刘晔见幸于魏明帝，谮矫专权。
矫忧惧，以问骞。
骞曰： 主上明圣，大人大臣，今若不合意，不过不作公耳。
后帝意果释，骞尚少，为夏侯玄所侮，意色自若，玄以此异之。
起家尚书郎，迁中山、安平太守，并著称绩。
征为相国司马、长史、御吏中丞，迁尚书，封安国亭侯。
蜀贼寇陇右，以尚书持节行征蜀将军，破贼而还。
会诸葛诞之乱，复以尚书行安东将军。
寿春平，拜使持节、都督淮北诸军事、安东将军，进爵广陵侯。
转都督豫州诸军事、豫州刺史，持节、将军如故。
又转都督江南诸军事，徙都督荆州诸军事、征南大将军，封郯侯。
武帝受禅，以佐命之勋，进车骑将军，封高平郡公，迁侍中、大将军，出为都督扬州诸军事，余如故，假黄钺。
攻拔吴枳里城，破涂中屯戍。赐骞兄子惺爵关中侯。
咸宁初，迁太尉，转大司马。
骞因入朝，言于帝曰： 胡烈、牵弘皆勇而无谋，强于自用，非绥边之材，将为国耻。
愿陛下详之。
时弘为扬州刺史，不承顺骞命。
帝以为不协相构，于是征弘，既至，寻复以为凉州刺史。
骞窃叹息，以为必败。
二人后果失羌戎之和，皆被寇丧没，征讨连岁，仅而得定，帝乃悔之。
骞少有度量，含垢匿瑕，所在有绩。
与贾充、石苞、裴秀等俱为心膂，而骞智度过之，充等亦自以为不及也。
translation: 
Chen Qian’s son, Pei Xiuzi, and his younger brother Kaikai Zixian
Chen Qian was a native of Shuyang, Linhuai.
His father, Chen Jiao, was a Situ of Wei.
Chen Jiao was originally from the Liu family in Guangling, and was raised by his maternal grandfather Chen, so he changed his surname.
Chen Qian is deep and resourceful.
At the beginning, Chen Jiao was appointed as Shangshu Ling, and his attendant Liu Ye was favored by Emperor Wei Ming, who falsely accused Chen Jiao of monopolizing power.
Chen Jiao was worried and fearful, so he asked Chen Qian.
Chen Qian said: The emperor is wise and his father is a minister. If things don't go as planned, it's just not doing justice.
Later, the emperor's doubts were indeed eliminated. When Chen Qian was a boy, he was insulted by Xia Houxuan, but he looked calm, so Xia Houxuan thought he was unusual.
He initially served as an official as Shangshu Lang, and later became the Grand Administrator of Zhongshan and Anping, both of which had remarkable achievements.
He was promoted to Sima, Changshi, and Yushi Zhongcheng of the Prime Minister. He was promoted to Shangshu and was granted the title of Tinghou of Anguo.
When the Shu Kingdom invaded Longyou, Chen Qian used the title of Shangshu Zhijie and conquered the Shu generals on his behalf, defeated the enemy and returned to the dynasty.
Coinciding with the Zhuge Dan Rebellion, he also acted as Minister of General Anshu.
Shouchun was pacified, and he paid homage to the envoy Chijie, the commander-in-chief of all military affairs in Huaibei, and the general Andong, and his title was promoted to Marquis of Guangling.
He was transferred to the governorship of Yuzhou's military affairs and the governor of Yuzhou, but his positions of Chijie and general remained.
He was also transferred to be the Commander-in-Chief of the military affairs in the south of the Yangtze River, the Commander-in-Chief of the military affairs in Jingzhou, the General of the Conquest of the South, and was granted the title of Marquis of Tan.
Emperor Wu accepted the abdication, and Chen Qian was promoted to General of Chariots and Cavalry for his merits in assisting Tianming. He was granted the title of Duke of Gaoping County, promoted to the rank of Shizhong, Grand General, and served as the Commander-in-Chief of Yangzhou's military affairs. The rest of his official positions remained the same, with the fake Huangyue.
He captured the city of Zhili in the state of Wu, defeated Tu Zhong's troops, and granted Chen Qian's brother's son, Chen Kui, the title of Marquis of Guanzhong.
In the early years of Xianning, he was promoted to Taiwei and transferred to Grand Sima.
Chen Qian took the opportunity to enter the court and said to the emperor: Hu Lie and Qian Hong are both brave and overconfident. They are not capable of stabilizing border defense and will bring shame to the country.
I hope your Majesty will take a closer look.
At that time, Qian Hong was appointed governor of Yangzhou and did not obey Chen Qian's orders.
The emperor thought that the two men were at odds with each other, so he recruited Qian Hong. After his arrival, he soon became the governor of Liangzhou.
Chen Qian sighed privately, thinking that this move would definitely lead to failure.
The two men later lost their peace with the Qiang Rong, and both died at the hands of enemy invaders. After years of conquests, they could only achieve peace, and the emperor regretted it very much.
Chen Qian was magnanimous, tolerant and generous when he was young, and had achievements in any position.
He, Maichong, Shi Bao, Pei Xiu and others were all assistant ministers, but Chen Qian was superior to them in resourcefulness, and Maichong and others thought they were not as good as him.

summary:
summary line 1: When Emperor Wu accepted the abdication, Chen Qian was promoted to General of Chariots and Cavalry for his merits, granted the title of Duke of Gaoping County, and served as Shizhong, Grand General, and commander of Yangzhou military affairs. He captured Zhili in Wu and defeated Tu Zhong's forces. In the early Xianning years, he was promoted to Taiwei and then Grand Sima. He warned the emperor about Hu Lie and Qian Hong's overconfidence, but the emperor dismissed his concerns. Both later died in conflict with the Qiang Rong, leading the emperor to regret his decision. Chen Qian was magnanimous and achieved success in all positions. He surpassed colleagues like Maichong, Shi Bao, and Pei Xiu in resourcefulness. He held high office beyond retirement age and eventually retired, receiving honors and gifts from the emperor. He died at eighty-one, with the emperor attending his funeral.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
祖茂，汉尚书令。
父潜，魏尚书令。
秀少好学，有风操，八岁能属文。
叔父徽有盛名，宾客甚众。
秀年十余岁，有诣徽者，出则过秀。
然秀母贱，嫡母宣氏不之礼，尝使进馔于客，见者皆为之起。
秀母曰： 微贱如此，当应为小兒故也。
宣氏知之，后遂止。
时人为之语曰： 后进领袖有裴秀。
渡辽将军毌丘俭尝荐秀于大将军曹爽，曰： 生而岐嶷，长蹈自然，玄静守真，性入道奥；博学强记，无文不该；孝友著于乡党，高声闻于远近。
诚宜弼佐谟明，助和鼎味，毗赞大府，光昭盛化。
非徒子奇、甘罗之俦，兼包颜、冉、游、夏之美。
爽乃辟为掾，袭父爵清阳亭侯，迁黄门侍郎。
爽诛，以故吏免。
顷之，为廷尉正，历文帝安东及卫将军司马，军国之政，多见信纳。
迁散骑常侍。
帝之讨诸葛诞也，秀与尚书仆射陈泰、黄门侍郎锺会以行台从，豫参谋略。
及诞平，转尚书，进封鲁阳乡侯，增邑千户。
常道乡公立，以豫议定策，进爵县侯，增邑七百户，迁尚书仆射。
魏咸熙初，厘革宪司。
时荀顗定礼仪，贾充正法律，而秀改官制焉。
秀议五等之爵，自骑督已上六百余人皆封。
于是秀封济川侯，地方六十里，邑千四百户，以高苑县济川墟为侯国。
初，文帝未定嗣，而属意舞阳侯攸。
武帝惧不得立，问秀曰： 人有相否？
因以奇表示之。
秀后言于文帝曰： 中抚军人望既茂，天表如此，固非人臣之相也。
由是世子乃定。
武帝既即王位，拜尚书令、右光禄大夫，与御史大夫王沈、卫将军贾充俱开府，加给事中。
及帝受禅，加左光禄大夫，封钜鹿郡公，邑三千户。
时安远护军郝诩与故人书云： 与尚书令裴秀相知，望其为益。
有司奏免秀官，诏曰： 不能使人之不加诸我，此古人所难。
交关人事，诩之罪耳，岂尚书令能防乎！
其勿有所问。
司隶校尉李憙复上言，骑都尉刘尚为尚书令裴秀占官稻田，求禁止秀。
诏又以秀干翼朝政，有勋绩于王室，不可以小疵掩大德，使推正尚罪而解秀禁止焉。
久之，诏曰： 夫三司之任，以翼宣皇极，弼成王事者也。
translation: 
His grandfather Pei Mao was a minister of the Han Dynasty.
His father, Pei Qian, was the minister of Wei.
When he was young, Pei Xiu was eager to learn and had good manners. He was able to write articles at the age of eight.
Uncle Pei Hui was famous and had many guests.
When Pei Xiu was more than ten years old, someone visited Pei Hui and met Pei Xiu on his way out.
However, Pei Xiu's biological mother was humble, and her aunt, Xuan, was rude to her. She once asked her to serve food to guests, and everyone who saw her stood up for her.
Pei Xiu's biological mother said: I am so lowly because of my youngest son.
After Xuan learned about this, he would never do that again.
People at that time said: The leader of the younger generation is Pei Xiu.
Tan Qiu Jian, the general who crossed the Liao Dynasty, once recommended Pei Xiu to General Cao Shuang, saying: Pei Xiu was born smart and followed nature; he was quiet in his thoughts and adhered to the right path; he was erudite and memorized, and he was proficient in articles; his filial piety and friendliness were well-known in the countryside, and his good reputation was known far and near.
In fact, we should assist in strategy, assist in government affairs, support your government, and promote enlightenment.
Pei Xiu is not only a character like Zi Qi and Gan Luo, he has the virtues of Yan, Ran, You and Xia.
Cao Shuang then recruited him as a subordinate official, inherited his father's title of Qingyang Tinghou, and was promoted to Huangmen Shilang.
Cao Shuang was killed and dismissed as an old official.
Soon after, he was appointed Tingweizheng, and successively served as Emperor Wen An Shu and General Wei Sima. Most of the national and military policies proposed were adopted.
He was promoted to the rank of regular attendant of Sanqi.
When the emperor crusaded against Zhuge Dan, Pei Xiu, Shangshu Pushe Chen Tai, and Huangmen Shilang Zhong Hui accompanied him to the stage and participated in the strategy.
Zhuge Dan was pacified, transferred to the position of Minister, and granted the title of Marquis of Luyang Township, adding a thousand households to the city.
Changdao Township Duke succeeded to the throne. Because of his participation in the establishment of the throne, Pei Xiu was promoted to the title of County Marquis, increased the number of households by 700, and was promoted to the position of Minister of Public Affairs.
In the early years of Wei Xianxi's reign, the Xiansi was reformed.
At that time, Xun Zhuan revised the etiquette, Mai Chong revised the law, and Pei Xiu changed the official system.
Pei Xiu proposed the fifth-class title, and more than 600 people from the riding governor level and above were awarded the title.
So Pei Xiu was granted the title of Marquis of Jichuan, with a land area of ​​60 miles, a settlement of 1,400 households, and the Jichuan Ruins of Gaoyuan County as the marquis state.
At the beginning, Emperor Wen had not yet determined his successor, but he intended to establish Sima You, Marquis of Wuyang.
Emperor Wu was afraid that he would not be able to establish himself, so he asked Pei Xiu: Is there any theory of appearance?
So he said that he looked strange.
Pei Xiu later told Emperor Wen: "The Zhongfu Army has a high reputation and has the appearance of an emperor. It is definitely not the appearance of a minister."
This determines the heir apparent.
After Emperor Wu ascended the throne, Pei Xiuguan paid homage to Shangshu Ling and Dr. You Guanglu, as well as Dr. Wang Shen, the imperial censor, and General Jia Chong of the Wei Dynasty.
Emperor Wu accepted the abdication and granted him the title of Doctor Zuo Guanglu, the title of Duke of Julu County, and the title of 3,000 households in the city.
At that time, Anyuan Guardsman Hao Xiang wrote to a friend: I and Shangshu Ling Pei Xiu knew each other well, and I saw him seeking personal gain.
Regarding the officials' petition to remove Pei Xiu from his official position, the emperor wrote to Shao: "It is impossible to prevent and avoid adding sinners. This is difficult for the ancients."
Collusion is Hao Xiang's crime. Isn't it something that Shangshu Ling can prevent!
Don't ask about it.
Li Yi, the captain of the Sili school, said again that Liu Shang, the captain of the cavalry, ordered Pei Xiu to invade the public rice fields and requested to restrict Pei Xiu's freedom of movement.
The edict also said that Pei Xiu assisted in government affairs and had meritorious service to the royal family. Small shortcomings could not cover up his great virtues. He sent people to investigate Liu Shang's guilt and lifted the restrictions on Pei Xiu.
A long time later, the emperor issued an edict saying: The responsibility of the three divisions is to assist the royal family and assist in royal affairs.

summary:
summary line 2: Pei Xiu, courtesy name Ji Yan, was from Wenxi, Hedong. His grandfather Pei Mao and father Pei Qian were ministers. Pei Xiu was eager to learn and wrote articles at eight. His uncle Pei Hui had many guests, and Pei Xiu's mother was once humiliated by her aunt, but Pei Xiu's reputation grew. He was recommended to Cao Shuang, who recruited him. After Cao Shuang's death, he was dismissed but later served as Tingweizheng and Wei Sima, with his policies adopted. He participated in the campaign against Zhuge Dan and was promoted to Minister and Marquis of Luyang Township. He helped establish the throne and was promoted to County Marquis. In the Xianxi era, he reformed the official system, proposing the fifth-class title. He was granted the title of Marquis of Jichuan. He advised Emperor Wen on the heir, supporting Emperor Wu. After Emperor Wu's ascension, he became Shangshu Ling and Duke of Julu County. He faced accusations but was defended by the emperor. He was later made Sikong.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
秀创制朝仪，广陈刑政，朝廷多遵用之，以为故事。
在位四载，为当世名公。
服寒食散，当饮热酒而饮冷酒，泰始七年薨，时年四十八。
诏曰： 司空经德履哲，体蹈儒雅，佐命翼世，勋业弘茂。
方将宣献敷制，为世宗范，不幸薨殂，朕甚痛之。
其赐秘器、朝服一具、衣一袭、钱三十万、布百匹。
谥曰元。
初，秀以尚书三十六曹统事准例不明，宜使诸卿任职，未及奏而薨。
其友人料其书记，得表草言平吴之事，其词曰： 孙皓酷虐，不及圣明御世兼弱攻昧，使遗子孙，将遂不能臣；时有否泰，非万安之势也。
臣昔虽已屡言，未有成旨。
今既疾笃不起，谨重尸启。
愿陛下时共施用。
乃封以上闻。
诏报曰： 司空薨，痛悼不能去心。
又得表草，虽在危困，不忘王室，尽忠忧国。
省益伤切，辄当与诸贤共论也。
咸宁初，与石苞等并为王公，配享庙庭。
有二子：浚、頠。
浚嗣位，至散骑常侍，早卒。
浚庶子憬不惠，别封高阳亭侯，以浚少弟頠嗣。
頠字逸民。
弘雅有远识，博学稽古，自少知名。
御史中丞周弼见而叹曰： 頠若武库，五兵纵横，一时之杰也。
贾充即頠从母夫也，表 秀有佐命之勋，不幸嫡长丧亡，遗孤稚弱。
頠才德英茂，足以兴隆国嗣。
诏頠袭爵，頠固让，不许。
太康二年，徵为太子中庶子，迁散骑常侍。
惠帝既位，转国子祭酒，兼右军将军。
translation: 
Pei Xiu founded and formulated court etiquette and extensively stated criminal laws and decrees, which were mostly followed and adopted by the court as precedents.
He reigned for four years and was a famous minister at that time.
Pei Xiu was poorly dressed and did not eat on time. He drank cold wine when he should drink hot wine. He died in the seventh year of Taishi at the age of forty-eight.
The edict said: Sikong was wise, virtuous, and behaved elegantly. He assisted the emperor and supported the dynasty, and his merits and deeds were great.
Just when I was about to make a difference to amend the country's legal system, as a great master and model in the world, he unfortunately passed away. I was very sad.
Give him a noble coffin, a set of court robes, a piece of clothing, three hundred thousand dollars, and a hundred pieces of cloth.
Mi Hao Yuan.
At the beginning, Pei Xiu believed that the management of the thirty-six departments of Shangshu was not clear and that ministers should be allowed to serve. He would die before he could submit a memorial in the future.
His friend sorted out his manuscripts and found the draft above, which discussed the pacification of Wu. It said: Sun Hao is cruel and tyrannical. If he does not take advantage of the wise king to rule the country, he annexes the weak and attacks the ignorant, and leaves it to his descendants. He will not be able to make the enemy surrender. There are good and bad times in the world, and it is not always smooth.
Although I have said it many times, I have not written it into a memorial.
Now that I am seriously ill, I respectfully state it again.
May your Majesty implement it in due course.
Then he sealed the table and played it.
The edict replied: Sikong passed away, and the deep sorrow cannot be erased from my heart.
I also got the draft of the memorial. Although I was seriously ill, I did not forget the royal family and served the country with all my heart.
The more I read, the sadder I became, so I discussed it with all the wise ministers.
In the early years of Xianning, Shi Bao and others were princes and worthy of enjoying the imperial temple.
He has two sons: Pei Jun and Pei Po.
Pei Jun was the heir, and he often served as an official, but he died early.
Pei Jun's concubine Pei Jing was not smart, so he was granted the title of Marquis of Gaoyang Ting, and Pei Jun's younger brother Pei Dian succeeded him.
Pei Yuan's courtesy name is Yimin.
He is very elegant and far-sighted, has extensive knowledge and studied ancient affairs, and has been famous since he was a child.
Zhou Bi, the censor Zhongcheng, saw him and said with emotion: Pei Po is like an arsenal with all kinds of weapons. He is a hero for a while.
Jia Chong is the husband of Pei Dian's aunt. The above table says that Pei Xiu had the merits of assisting the emperor. Unfortunately, his eldest son died, leaving him orphaned and weak.
Pei Po has both talent and virtue, enough to be prosperous and granted a title.
Xia Shao asked Pei Po to inherit the title, but Pei Dian firmly refused, but the emperor refused.
In the second year of Taikang's reign, Pei Dian was conscripted as the crown prince's concubine and promoted to the rank of regular attendant of Sanqi.
Emperor Hui ascended the throne and was transferred to the post of Guozi Jijiu and general of the right army.

summary:
summary line 3: Pei Xiu was knowledgeable and compiled the "Yugong Regional Circle," a map with six principles: ratio, accurate observation, road, high-low, fangxie, and roundabout. He established court礼仪 and criminal laws. He died at forty-eight, and the emperor mourned deeply. His son Pei Jun died early, and his younger son Pei Dian succeeded him. Pei Dian, courtesy name Yimin, was elegant and knowledgeable. He served as crown prince's concubine and Sanqi Changshi. He advised against Yang Jun's rebellion and was promoted. He discussed the prince's education and medical standards. He wrote the "Chongyou Lun" against nihilism, arguing for the importance of existence and ritual. He was killed by Sima Lun at thirty-four. His sons Pei Song and Pei Gai were exiled but later restored.

Chunk 12: 
original: 
王浑为楷请曰： 楷受先帝拔擢之恩，复蒙陛下宠遇，诚竭节之秋也。
然楷性不竞于物，昔为常侍，求出为河内太守；后为侍中，复求出为河南尹；与杨骏不平，求为卫尉；及转东宫，班在时类之下，安于淡退，有识有以见其心也。
楷今委顿，臣深忧之。
光禄勋缺，以为可用。
今张华在中书，王戎在尚书，足举其契，无为复令楷入，名臣不多，当见将养，不违其志，要其远济之益。
不听，就加光禄大夫、开府仪同三司。
及疾笃，诏遣黄门郎王衍省疾，楷回眸瞩之曰： 竟未相识。
衍深叹其神俊。
楷有知人之鉴，初在河南，乐广侨居郡界，未知名，楷见而奇之，致之于宰府。
尝目夏侯玄云 肃肃如入宗庙中，但见礼乐器 ，锺会 如观武库森森，但见矛戟在前 ，傅嘏 汪翔靡所不见 ，山涛 若登山临下，幽然深远 。
初，楷家炊黍在甑，或变如拳，或作血，或作芜菁子。
其年而卒，时年五十五，谥曰元。
有五子：舆、瓚、宪、礼、逊。
舆字祖明。
少袭父爵，官至散骑侍郎，卒谥曰简。
瓚字国宝，中书郎，风神高迈，见者皆敬之。
特为王绥所重，每从其游。
绥父戎谓之曰： 国宝初不来，汝数往，何也？
对曰： 国宝虽不知绥，绥自知国宝。
杨骏之诛，为乱兵所害。
宪字景思。
少而颖悟，好交轻侠。
及弱冠，更折节严重，修尚儒学，足不逾阈者数年。
陈郡谢鲲、颍川庾敳皆俊郎士也，见而奇之，相谓曰： 裴宪鲠亮宏达，通机识命，不知其何如父；至于深弘保素，不以世物婴心者，其殆过之。
初，侍讲东宫，历黄门吏部郎、侍中。
东海王越以为豫州刺史、北中郎将、假节。
王浚承制，以宪为尚书。
永嘉末，王浚为石勒所破，枣嵩等莫不谢罪军门，贡赂交错，惟宪及荀绰恬然私室。
translation: 
Wang Hun pleads for Pei Kai, saying: Pei Kai was favored by the promotion of the previous emperor, and was favored by your majesty. It was the autumn of his utmost loyalty.
However, Pei Kai was not good at competition by nature. He used to be a regular servant and asked to be appointed as the governor of Hanoi. Later he was appointed as the servant and asked to be appointed as the Yin of Henan. He had a disagreement with Yang Jun and asked to be appointed as a guard. When he was transferred to Shu Palace, his position was lower than that of his peers at that time. However, he was content to retire indifferently. People with knowledge can see his thoughts.
I am deeply worried that Pei Kai is not cheering up now.
Guang Luxun is short of personnel, I think he can be appointed.
Now that Zhang Hua is in Zhongshu and Wang Rong is in Shangshu, they are enough to control the documents. There is no need for Pei Kai to intervene. There are not many famous officials, so they should be supported and not go against their wishes for long-term benefits.
If he is not accepted, he will be appointed as Guanglu Doctor and Kaifu Yitong.
When he became seriously ill, he issued an edict to send Huangmenlang Wang Yan to visit him. Pei Kai looked back at him and said, "I have never seen him before."
Wang Yan was deeply impressed by his superior intelligence.
Pei Kai was good at identifying talents. At first in Henan, Yue Guang was living in the county and had no reputation. When Pei Kai saw him, he thought he was a strange person and introduced him to the Zaifu.
I once read Xia Houxuan's words: "It's like walking into the ancestral temple respectfully, only seeing the ritual instruments; seeing Zhong Hui said, it's like seeing an armory, only seeing the spears and halberds in front of me; seeing Fu Gu, saying that the ocean is omnipresent; seeing the mountain waves, it's like looking down from a mountain, deep and quiet."
At first, when Pei Kai's family was cooking, some of the yellow rice in the pot became like fists, some like blood, and some like turnip seeds.
Pei Kai died in the year of Zao, at the age of fifty-five, and his title was Yuan.
He has five sons: Pei Yu, Pei Zan, Pei Xian, Pei Li, and Pei Xun.
Pei Yu's courtesy name was Zuming.
He inherited his father's title when he was young, and he rose to the rank of Sanqi Shilang. After his death, he was given the nickname Mi Jian.
Pei Zan, also known as National Treasure, served as Zhongshu Lang. He was very talented and respected by everyone who saw him.
He was especially valued by Wang Sui and often traveled with him.
Wang Sui's father Wang Rong said to him: The national treasure didn't come at first, but you went to him many times. Why?
He replied: Although the national treasure does not understand Wang Sui, Wang Sui himself understands the national treasure.
During the Yang Jun Rebellion, he was killed by the rebels.
Pei Xian's courtesy name is Jingsi.
Young and smart, he likes to make friends.
When he was twenty years old, he completely changed his daily ambitions and advocated Confucianism. He was unable to produce anything for several years.
Xie Kun of Chen County and Yu Gu of Yingchuan were both talented people. They were surprised to see Pei Xian and said to each other: Pei Xian is upright and open-minded. He knows the situation well and is better than his father. As for his deep innocence and not bothering himself with worldly things, he is probably better than his father.
At first, he served as a minister in the East Palace, and successively served as a minister and minister in Huangmen.
Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, appointed him as the governor of Yuzhou, the general of Beizhong Lang, and the governor of Jiajie.
Wang Jun took power and appointed Pei Xian as minister.
In the last years of Yongjia, Wang Jun was defeated by Shi Le. Zaosong and others all went to the military gate to apologize. People who paid tribute and bribed people came and went, but only Hu and Bao Wei stayed at home safely.

summary:
summary line 4: Pei Kai, courtesy name Shuze, was Pei Hui's son. He was intelligent and famous young, proficient in "Laozi" and "Yijing." He served as Shangshu Lang and Ding Kelang. He was known as the "Jade Man" for his elegance. He advised Emperor Wu during a divination, calming him. He served as Sanqi Minister and other posts. He was generous, giving away possessions. He criticized Jia Chong's presence in court. He survived the Yang Jun rebellion by hiding. He later served as Zhongshu Ling. He died at fifty-five. His sons included Pei Yu, Pei Zan, Pei Xian, Pei Li, and Pei Xun. Pei Xian, courtesy name Jingsi, was upright and served as Yuzhou governor. He was captured by Shi Le but praised for his integrity. He later served under Shi Le and Jilong, but his sons were killed, and he was dismissed. He died in the Shi family's hands.

Chunk 14: 
original: 
奥劝盾刑杀立威，大发良人为兵，有不奉法者罪便至死。
在任三年，百姓嗟怨。
东海王越，盾妹夫也。
越既薨，骑督满衡便引所发良人东还。
寻而刘元海遣将王桑、赵固向彭城，前锋数骑至下邳，文武不堪苛政，悉皆散走，盾、奥奔淮阴，妻子为贼人所得。
奥又诱盾降赵固。
固妻盾女，有宠，盾向女涕泣，固遂杀之。
盾弟邵，字道期。
元帝为安东将军，以邵为长史，王导为司马，二人相与为深交。
征为太子中庶子，复转散骑常侍，使持节、都督扬州江西淮北诸军事、东中郎将，随越出项，而卒于军中。
及王导为司空，既拜，叹曰： 裴道期、刘王乔在，吾不得独登此位。
导子仲豫与康同字，导思旧好，乃改为敬豫焉。
楷弟绰，字季舒，器宇宏旷，官至黄门侍郎、长水校尉。
绰子遐，善言玄理，音辞清暢，泠然若琴瑟。
尝与河南郭象谈论，一坐嗟服。
又尝在平东将军周馥坐，与人围棋。
馥司马行酒，遐未即饮，司马醉怒，因曳遐堕地。
遐徐起还坐，颜色不变，复棋如故。
其性虚和如此。
东海王越引为主簿，后为越子毗所害。
初，裴、王二族盛于魏晋之世，时人以为八裴方八王：徽比王祥，楷比王衍，康比王绥，绰比王澄，瓚比王敦，遐比王导，頠比王戎，邈比王玄云。
史臣曰：周称多士，汉曰得人，取类星象，颉颃符契。
时乏名流，多以干翮相许，自家光国，岂陈骞之谓欤！
秀则声盖朋僚，称为领袖。
楷则机神幼发，目以清通。
俱为晋氏名臣，良有以也。
translation: 
Sima Ao advised Pei Dun to use punishment and execution to establish his prestige, recruit civilians as soldiers on a large scale, and sentence those who did not abide by the law to death.
After three years in office, the people were resentful.
Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, was Pei Dun's brother-in-law.
After Sima Yue died, Riding Governor Man Heng led the civilians he had collected to return him.
Soon Liu Yuanhai sent generals Wang Sang and Tang Gu to send troops to Pengcheng. The vanguard arrived at Xiapi. The civil and military officials could not stand the harsh rule and all fled. Pei Dun and Sima Ao fled to Huaiyin, but their wives and children were captured by bandits.
Sima Ao also persuaded Pei Dun to surrender to Zhao Gu.
Zhao Gu's wife was Pei Dun's daughter and she was favored. Pei Dun cried to her daughter, so Zhao Gu killed Pei Dun.
Pei Dun's younger brother Pei Shao, named Daoqi.
When Emperor Yuan was General Anton, he appointed Pei Shao as the chief historian and Wang Dao as the Sima. The two had a close friendship.
Pei Shao was conscripted as the concubine of the crown prince, and was transferred to the rank of regular servant of Sanqi. He envoy Chijie, the governor of Yangzhou, Jiangxi and Huaibei military affairs, and Shuzhonglang general, followed Sima Yue to Xiangxiang, and died in the army.
When Director Wang became Sikong and took office, he sighed and said: "If Pei Daoqi and Liu Wangqiao are here, I can't hold this official position alone."
Director Wang's son Zhongyu had the same name as Pei Kang. Director Wang missed his old friend, so he changed his name to Jingyu.
Pei Kai's younger brother Pei Chuo, also known as Ji Shu, had a broad mind and served as the Minister of Huangmen and the Captain of Changshui.
Pei Chuo's son Pei Xia was good at talking about mysteries, his words were fluent, and he was as clear as the harp.
I once discussed it with Guo Xiang of Henan, and everyone in the room admired him.
He also played Go with others at Pingshu General Zhou Fu's place.
Zhou Fu's Sima persuaded Pei Xia to drink wine, but Pei Xia did not drink immediately. Sima got drunk and became angry, so he pulled Pei Xia to the ground.
Pei Xia slowly got up and returned to his seat, his expression unchanged, playing chess as before.
His character is so modest and peaceful.
Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, asked him to be the chief registrar, but he was later killed by Sima Yue's son Sima Bi.
At that time, the two families of Pei and Wang were very prosperous in the Wei and Jin Dynasties. People at that time believed that the eight surnames Pei were just like the eight surnames Wang: Pei Hui was better than Wang Xiang, Pei Kai was better than Wang Yan, Pei Kang was better than Wang Sui, Pei Chuo was better than Wang Cheng, Pei Zan was better than Wang Dun, Pei Xia was better than Wang Dao, Pei Yuan was better than Wang Rong, and Pei Miao was better than Wang Xuan.
Shi Chen said: The Zhou Dynasty was considered to have many scholars, and the Han Dynasty was said to have gained sages. They used the astrological analogy to correspond to the destiny.
There was a lack of celebrities at that time, and most people used the term "backbone" to praise him. His family was shining brightly on the country. Could it be that he was talking about Chen Qian?
Pei Xiu's reputation surpassed that of his colleagues and he was called a leader.
When he was young, Pei Kai was very resourceful and knowledgeable.
They are all famous officials of the Jin Dynasty, it is true!

summary:
summary line 5: The Pei family was prominent in Wei and Jin, with eight members compared to the eight Wangs. The text praises Chen Qian and Pei Xiu as famous officials of the Jin Dynasty.

