Chunk 0: 
original: 
陈骞子舆裴秀子頠秀从弟楷楷子宪
陈骞，临淮东阳人也。
父矫，魏司徒。
矫本广陵刘氏，为外祖陈氏所养，因而改焉。
骞沈厚有智谋。
初，矫为尚书令，侍中刘晔见幸于魏明帝，谮矫专权。
矫忧惧，以问骞。
骞曰： 主上明圣，大人大臣，今若不合意，不过不作公耳。
后帝意果释，骞尚少，为夏侯玄所侮，意色自若，玄以此异之。
起家尚书郎，迁中山、安平太守，并著称绩。
征为相国司马、长史、御吏中丞，迁尚书，封安国亭侯。
蜀贼寇陇右，以尚书持节行征蜀将军，破贼而还。
会诸葛诞之乱，复以尚书行安东将军。
寿春平，拜使持节、都督淮北诸军事、安东将军，进爵广陵侯。
转都督豫州诸军事、豫州刺史，持节、将军如故。
又转都督江南诸军事，徙都督荆州诸军事、征南大将军，封郯侯。
武帝受禅，以佐命之勋，进车骑将军，封高平郡公，迁侍中、大将军，出为都督扬州诸军事，余如故，假黄钺。
攻拔吴枳里城，破涂中屯戍。赐骞兄子惺爵关中侯。
咸宁初，迁太尉，转大司马。
骞因入朝，言于帝曰： 胡烈、牵弘皆勇而无谋，强于自用，非绥边之材，将为国耻。
愿陛下详之。
时弘为扬州刺史，不承顺骞命。
帝以为不协相构，于是征弘，既至，寻复以为凉州刺史。
骞窃叹息，以为必败。
二人后果失羌戎之和，皆被寇丧没，征讨连岁，仅而得定，帝乃悔之。
骞少有度量，含垢匿瑕，所在有绩。
与贾充、石苞、裴秀等俱为心膂，而骞智度过之，充等亦自以为不及也。
translation: 
Chen Qian’s son, Pei Xiuzi, and his younger brother Kaikai Zixian
Chen Qian was a native of Shuyang, Linhuai.
His father, Chen Jiao, was a Situ of Wei.
Chen Jiao was originally from the Liu family in Guangling, and was raised by his maternal grandfather Chen, so he changed his surname.
Chen Qian is deep and resourceful.
At the beginning, Chen Jiao was appointed as Shangshu Ling, and his attendant Liu Ye was favored by Emperor Wei Ming, who falsely accused Chen Jiao of monopolizing power.
Chen Jiao was worried and fearful, so he asked Chen Qian.
Chen Qian said: The emperor is wise and his father is a minister. If things don't go as planned, it's just not doing justice.
Later, the emperor's doubts were indeed eliminated. When Chen Qian was a boy, he was insulted by Xia Houxuan, but he looked calm, so Xia Houxuan thought he was unusual.
He initially served as an official as Shangshu Lang, and later became the Grand Administrator of Zhongshan and Anping, both of which had remarkable achievements.
He was promoted to Sima, Changshi, and Yushi Zhongcheng of the Prime Minister. He was promoted to Shangshu and was granted the title of Tinghou of Anguo.
When the Shu Kingdom invaded Longyou, Chen Qian used the title of Shangshu Zhijie and conquered the Shu generals on his behalf, defeated the enemy and returned to the dynasty.
Coinciding with the Zhuge Dan Rebellion, he also acted as Minister of General Anshu.
Shouchun was pacified, and he paid homage to the envoy Chijie, the commander-in-chief of all military affairs in Huaibei, and the general Andong, and his title was promoted to Marquis of Guangling.
He was transferred to the governorship of Yuzhou's military affairs and the governor of Yuzhou, but his positions of Chijie and general remained.
He was also transferred to be the Commander-in-Chief of the military affairs in the south of the Yangtze River, the Commander-in-Chief of the military affairs in Jingzhou, the General of the Conquest of the South, and was granted the title of Marquis of Tan.
Emperor Wu accepted the abdication, and Chen Qian was promoted to General of Chariots and Cavalry for his merits in assisting Tianming. He was granted the title of Duke of Gaoping County, promoted to the rank of Shizhong, Grand General, and served as the Commander-in-Chief of Yangzhou's military affairs. The rest of his official positions remained the same, with the fake Huangyue.
He captured the city of Zhili in the state of Wu, defeated Tu Zhong's troops, and granted Chen Qian's brother's son, Chen Kui, the title of Marquis of Guanzhong.
In the early years of Xianning, he was promoted to Taiwei and transferred to Grand Sima.
Chen Qian took the opportunity to enter the court and said to the emperor: Hu Lie and Qian Hong are both brave and overconfident. They are not capable of stabilizing border defense and will bring shame to the country.
I hope your Majesty will take a closer look.
At that time, Qian Hong was appointed governor of Yangzhou and did not obey Chen Qian's orders.
The emperor thought that the two men were at odds with each other, so he recruited Qian Hong. After his arrival, he soon became the governor of Liangzhou.
Chen Qian sighed privately, thinking that this move would definitely lead to failure.
The two men later lost their peace with the Qiang Rong, and both died at the hands of enemy invaders. After years of conquests, they could only achieve peace, and the emperor regretted it very much.
Chen Qian was magnanimous, tolerant and generous when he was young, and had achievements in any position.
He, Maichong, Shi Bao, Pei Xiu and others were all assistant ministers, but Chen Qian was superior to them in resourcefulness, and Maichong and others thought they were not as good as him.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
累处方任，为士庶所怀。
既位极人臣，年逾致仕，思欲退身。
咸宁三年，求入朝，因乞骸骨。
赐衮冕之服，诏曰： 骞元勋旧德，统乂东夏，方弘远绩，以一吴会，而所苦未除，每表恳切，重劳以方事。
今听留京城，以前太尉府为大司马府，增置祭酒二人，帐下司马、官骑、大车、鼓吹皆如前，亲兵百人，厨田十顷，厨园五十亩，厨士十人，器物经用皆留给焉。
又给乘舆辇，出入殿中加鼓吹，如汉萧何故事。
骞累称疾辞位，诏曰： 骞履德论道，朕所谘询。
方赖谋猷，以弘庶绩，宜时视事。
可遣散骑常侍谕意。
骞辄归第，诏又遣侍中敦谕还府。
遂固请，许之，位同保傅，在三司之上，赐以几杖，不朝，安车驷马，以高平公还第。
帝以其勋旧耆老，礼之甚重。
又以骞有疾，听乘舆上殿。
骞素无謇谔之风，然与帝语傲；及见皇太子加敬，时人以为谄。
弟稚与其子舆忿争，遂说骞子女秽行，骞表徙弟，以此获讥于世。
元康二年薨，年八十一，加以衮敛，赠太傅，谥曰武。
及葬，帝于大司马门临丧，望柩流涕，礼依大司马石苞故事。
子舆嗣爵。
舆字显初，拜散骑侍郎、洛阳令，迁黄门侍郎，厉将校左军、大司农、侍中。
坐与叔父不睦，出为河内太守。
舆虽无检正，而有力致。
寻卒，子植字弘先嗣，官至散骑常侍。
卒，子粹嗣，永嘉中遇害，孝武帝以骞玄孙袭爵。
卒，弟子浩之嗣。
宋受禅，国除。
裴秀，字季彦，河东闻喜人也。
translation: 
He held important responsibilities many times and was remembered by scholars and common people.
After reaching the highest official rank, he exceeds the retirement age and plans to retire.
In the third year of Xianning, he asked to enter the court, so he begged to be dismissed from office.
He was given the title of Gunmian and issued an edict saying: "Chen Qian has great merits and virtues in governing the east, carrying forward great achievements, and unifying Wuhui. However, the hard work he has done has not been eliminated, and he speaks sincerely every time."
The affairs of one party are tiring and tiring, and now he is allowed to stay in the capital. The former Taiwei's Mansion is the Grand Sima's Mansion, and two more wine-sacrifice men are added. The commanders, official cavalry, carts, and propaganda are all the same. One hundred soldiers, ten hectares of kitchen land, fifty acres of kitchen garden, ten cooks, and utensils and supplies are all left to the Grand Sima's Mansion.
He also encouraged people to ride in chariots and enter and leave the palace, just like the case of Lu Tan in the Han Dynasty.
Su Hua repeatedly complained of illness and resigned from office, and the edict said: "I am the assistant in Su Su's practice of virtue and ethics."
We are relying on his strategies to promote our achievements and should manage government affairs.
You can send casual knights to explain your will.
Chen Qian returned home, and the imperial edict sent a servant to urge Chen Qian to return to the government.
So he made a firm request, and the emperor agreed to him. His official position was like that of a protector, above the three divisions. He was given several cases of walking sticks, so that he did not have to go to court. He was given a carriage and four horses, and he returned home as Gao Pinggong.
The emperor was very respectful to him because of his meritorious service and his advanced age.
And because Chen Qian was ill, he was allowed to go to the palace in a sedan chair.
Chen Qian had never been upright and dared to speak out, but he spoke arrogantly to the emperor. When he met the crown prince, he was very respectful. People at the time thought he was flattering.
His younger brother Chen Zhi had an angry quarrel with Chen Qian's son Chen Yu, so Chen Qian complained about the filthy behavior of Chen Qian's children, and Chen Qian moved his younger brother away, for which he was ridiculed by the world.
Yuankang died in the second year of his reign at the age of eighty-one. Jia Gong was buried in the clothes, presented to the Taifu, and Mi was named Wu.
During the burial, the emperor attended the funeral in person at Da Sima Gate and shed tears looking at the coffin. The funeral ceremony followed the precedent of Da Sima Shibao.
His son Chen Yu succeeded him.
In the early days of Chen Yu's reign, he served as Minister of Sanqi and Ling of Luoyang, and was promoted to Minister of Huangmen. He successively served as General Zuojun, Da Si Nong, and Shi Zhong.
Because he was not at peace with his uncle, he became the governor of Hanoi.
Although Chen Yu had no moral integrity, he was diligent in his work.
He died soon after, and his son Chen Zhi, courtesy name Hongxian, succeeded him.
After his death, his son Chen Cui succeeded him. He was killed during the Yongjia period. Emperor Xiaowu let Chen Qian's great-great-grandson inherit the title.
After his death, his younger brother's son Haozhi succeeded him.
When Song Dynasty accepted the abdication, the fiefdom was cancelled.
Pei Xiu, whose courtesy name was Ji Yan, was a Wenxi person from Hedong.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
祖茂，汉尚书令。
父潜，魏尚书令。
秀少好学，有风操，八岁能属文。
叔父徽有盛名，宾客甚众。
秀年十余岁，有诣徽者，出则过秀。
然秀母贱，嫡母宣氏不之礼，尝使进馔于客，见者皆为之起。
秀母曰： 微贱如此，当应为小兒故也。
宣氏知之，后遂止。
时人为之语曰： 后进领袖有裴秀。
渡辽将军毌丘俭尝荐秀于大将军曹爽，曰： 生而岐嶷，长蹈自然，玄静守真，性入道奥；博学强记，无文不该；孝友著于乡党，高声闻于远近。
诚宜弼佐谟明，助和鼎味，毗赞大府，光昭盛化。
非徒子奇、甘罗之俦，兼包颜、冉、游、夏之美。
爽乃辟为掾，袭父爵清阳亭侯，迁黄门侍郎。
爽诛，以故吏免。
顷之，为廷尉正，历文帝安东及卫将军司马，军国之政，多见信纳。
迁散骑常侍。
帝之讨诸葛诞也，秀与尚书仆射陈泰、黄门侍郎锺会以行台从，豫参谋略。
及诞平，转尚书，进封鲁阳乡侯，增邑千户。
常道乡公立，以豫议定策，进爵县侯，增邑七百户，迁尚书仆射。
魏咸熙初，厘革宪司。
时荀顗定礼仪，贾充正法律，而秀改官制焉。
秀议五等之爵，自骑督已上六百余人皆封。
于是秀封济川侯，地方六十里，邑千四百户，以高苑县济川墟为侯国。
初，文帝未定嗣，而属意舞阳侯攸。
武帝惧不得立，问秀曰： 人有相否？
因以奇表示之。
秀后言于文帝曰： 中抚军人望既茂，天表如此，固非人臣之相也。
由是世子乃定。
武帝既即王位，拜尚书令、右光禄大夫，与御史大夫王沈、卫将军贾充俱开府，加给事中。
及帝受禅，加左光禄大夫，封钜鹿郡公，邑三千户。
时安远护军郝诩与故人书云： 与尚书令裴秀相知，望其为益。
有司奏免秀官，诏曰： 不能使人之不加诸我，此古人所难。
交关人事，诩之罪耳，岂尚书令能防乎！
其勿有所问。
司隶校尉李憙复上言，骑都尉刘尚为尚书令裴秀占官稻田，求禁止秀。
诏又以秀干翼朝政，有勋绩于王室，不可以小疵掩大德，使推正尚罪而解秀禁止焉。
久之，诏曰： 夫三司之任，以翼宣皇极，弼成王事者也。
translation: 
His grandfather Pei Mao was a minister of the Han Dynasty.
His father, Pei Qian, was the minister of Wei.
When he was young, Pei Xiu was eager to learn and had good manners. He was able to write articles at the age of eight.
Uncle Pei Hui was famous and had many guests.
When Pei Xiu was more than ten years old, someone visited Pei Hui and met Pei Xiu on his way out.
However, Pei Xiu's biological mother was humble, and her aunt, Xuan, was rude to her. She once asked her to serve food to guests, and everyone who saw her stood up for her.
Pei Xiu's biological mother said: I am so lowly because of my youngest son.
After Xuan learned about this, he would never do that again.
People at that time said: The leader of the younger generation is Pei Xiu.
Tan Qiu Jian, the general who crossed the Liao Dynasty, once recommended Pei Xiu to General Cao Shuang, saying: Pei Xiu was born smart and followed nature; he was quiet in his thoughts and adhered to the right path; he was erudite and memorized, and he was proficient in articles; his filial piety and friendliness were well-known in the countryside, and his good reputation was known far and near.
In fact, we should assist in strategy, assist in government affairs, support your government, and promote enlightenment.
Pei Xiu is not only a character like Zi Qi and Gan Luo, he has the virtues of Yan, Ran, You and Xia.
Cao Shuang then recruited him as a subordinate official, inherited his father's title of Qingyang Tinghou, and was promoted to Huangmen Shilang.
Cao Shuang was killed and dismissed as an old official.
Soon after, he was appointed Tingweizheng, and successively served as Emperor Wen An Shu and General Wei Sima. Most of the national and military policies proposed were adopted.
He was promoted to the rank of regular attendant of Sanqi.
When the emperor crusaded against Zhuge Dan, Pei Xiu, Shangshu Pushe Chen Tai, and Huangmen Shilang Zhong Hui accompanied him to the stage and participated in the strategy.
Zhuge Dan was pacified, transferred to the position of Minister, and granted the title of Marquis of Luyang Township, adding a thousand households to the city.
Changdao Township Duke succeeded to the throne. Because of his participation in the establishment of the throne, Pei Xiu was promoted to the title of County Marquis, increased the number of households by 700, and was promoted to the position of Minister of Public Affairs.
In the early years of Wei Xianxi's reign, the Xiansi was reformed.
At that time, Xun Zhuan revised the etiquette, Mai Chong revised the law, and Pei Xiu changed the official system.
Pei Xiu proposed the fifth-class title, and more than 600 people from the riding governor level and above were awarded the title.
So Pei Xiu was granted the title of Marquis of Jichuan, with a land area of ​​60 miles, a settlement of 1,400 households, and the Jichuan Ruins of Gaoyuan County as the marquis state.
At the beginning, Emperor Wen had not yet determined his successor, but he intended to establish Sima You, Marquis of Wuyang.
Emperor Wu was afraid that he would not be able to establish himself, so he asked Pei Xiu: Is there any theory of appearance?
So he said that he looked strange.
Pei Xiu later told Emperor Wen: "The Zhongfu Army has a high reputation and has the appearance of an emperor. It is definitely not the appearance of a minister."
This determines the heir apparent.
After Emperor Wu ascended the throne, Pei Xiuguan paid homage to Shangshu Ling and Dr. You Guanglu, as well as Dr. Wang Shen, the imperial censor, and General Jia Chong of the Wei Dynasty.
Emperor Wu accepted the abdication and granted him the title of Doctor Zuo Guanglu, the title of Duke of Julu County, and the title of 3,000 households in the city.
At that time, Anyuan Guardsman Hao Xiang wrote to a friend: I and Shangshu Ling Pei Xiu knew each other well, and I saw him seeking personal gain.
Regarding the officials' petition to remove Pei Xiu from his official position, the emperor wrote to Shao: "It is impossible to prevent and avoid adding sinners. This is difficult for the ancients."
Collusion is Hao Xiang's crime. Isn't it something that Shangshu Ling can prevent!
Don't ask about it.
Li Yi, the captain of the Sili school, said again that Liu Shang, the captain of the cavalry, ordered Pei Xiu to invade the public rice fields and requested to restrict Pei Xiu's freedom of movement.
The edict also said that Pei Xiu assisted in government affairs and had meritorious service to the royal family. Small shortcomings could not cover up his great virtues. He sent people to investigate Liu Shang's guilt and lifted the restrictions on Pei Xiu.
A long time later, the emperor issued an edict saying: The responsibility of the three divisions is to assist the royal family and assist in royal affairs.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
故经国论道，赖之明喆，苟非其人，官不虚备。
尚书令、左光禄大夫裴秀，雅量弘博，思心通远，先帝登庸，赞事前朝。
朕受明命，光佐大业，勋德茂著，配踪元凯。
宜正位居体，以康庶绩。
其以秀为司空。
秀儒学洽闻，且留心政事，当禅代之际，总纳言之要，其所裁当，礼无违者。
又以职在地官，以《禹贡》山川地名，从来久远，多有变易。
后世说者或强牵引，渐以暗昧。
于是甄摘旧文，疑者则阙，古有名而今无者，皆随事注列，作《禹贡地域图》十八篇，奏之，藏于秘府。
其序曰：
图书之设，由来尚矣。
自古立象垂制，而赖其用。
三代置其官，国史掌厥职。
暨汉屠咸阳，丞相萧何尽收秦之图籍。
今秘书既无古之地图，又无萧何所得，惟有汉氏《舆地》及《括地》诸杂图。
各不设分率，又不考正准望，亦不备载名山大川。
虽有粗形，皆不精审，不可依据。
或荒外迂诞之言，不合事实，于义无取。
大晋龙兴，混一六合，以清宇宙，始于庸蜀，冞入其岨。
文皇帝乃命有司，撰访吴蜀地图。
蜀土既定，六军所经，地域远近，山川险易，征路迂直，校验图记，罔或有差。
今上考《禹贡》山海川流，原隰陂泽，古之九州，及今之十六州，郡国县邑，疆界乡陬，及古国盟会旧名，水陆径路，为地图十八篇。
制图之体有六焉。
一曰分率，所以辨广轮之度也。
二曰准望，所以正彼此之体也。
三曰道里，所以定所由之数也。
四曰高下，五曰方邪，六曰迂直，此三者各因地而制宜，所以校夷险之异也。
有图象而无分率，则无以审远近之差；有分率而无准望，虽得之于一隅，必失之于他方；有准望而无道里，则施于山海绝隔之地，不能以相通；有道里而无高下、方邪、迂直之校，则径路之数必与远近之实相违，失准望之正矣，故以此六者参而考之。
然远近之实定于分率，彼此之实定于道里，度数之实定于高下、方邪、迂直之算。
故虽有峻山钜海之隔，绝域殊方之迥，登降诡曲之因，皆可得举而定者。
准望之法既正，则曲直远近无所隐其形也。
translation: 
Therefore, the governance of the country depends on their wisdom. If the people are not employed properly, the official position will be in vain.
Pei Xiu, the official of Shangshu Ling and Zuo Guanglu, was a man of great wisdom and far-reaching intentions. When the late emperor ascended the throne, he assisted the previous dynasty.
I accept the destiny, he assists in great undertakings, has great merits and morals, and is really an important minister of the court.
It should be consistent with the name and reality to praise his achievements.
Take Pei Xiu as Sikong.
Pei Xiu was knowledgeable and paid attention to political affairs. During the Zen Dynasty, he was in charge of the etiquette of the Zen dynasty. The matters he ruled did not violate etiquette.
And because he was a local official, he believed that the names of mountains and rivers in "Yugong" have a long history and have changed a lot.
Some of the explanations given by later generations were far-fetched and thus gradually became confusing.
So I screened and selected old documents, and ignored any doubtful ones. For place names that existed in ancient times but did not exist today, I made annotations as appropriate. I wrote eighteen chapters of "Yugong Regional Circle", reported it, and kept it in the Secret Mansion.
The preface says:
The writing of books has a long history.
Since ancient times, imitating the image drawing and customization of all things, all rely on books.
Relevant officials were set up in the Three Dynasties, and the National History was in charge of this position.
When they arrived in the desert to attack Xianyang, Prime Minister Xiao He collected all Qin's books.
Today, the collection of books in the palace contains neither ancient maps nor books collected by Xiao He. There are only miscellaneous maps such as "Yu Di" and "Kuo Di" of the Han Dynasty.
These maps neither have a uniform proportion nor verify their orientation, and the records of famous mountains and rivers are incomplete.
Although there are rough shapes, they are not precise and cannot be used as a basis.
Some ridiculous records about remote areas are inconsistent with the facts and have no merit.
The Jin Dynasty rose up to unify the world and clean up the universe. Starting from Yongshu, it became even more dangerous.
Emperor Wen then ordered relevant officials to compile a map of Wu and Shu.
After the Shu Kingdom was pacified, the map records of the places passed by the six armies, the distance of the region, the dangers of the mountains and rivers, and the length of the journey were verified and there were no errors.
Nowadays, the mountains, seas, streams, plains, depressions, ponds and swamps recorded in "Yu Gong", the ancient Kyushu, and the modern sixteen states, prefectures, counties, border villages, and the old place names of the ancient League of Nations, water and land routes are drawn and compiled into eighteen chapters of the map.
There are six ways to compile a map.
The first is the ratio, that is, reducing the painting square according to a uniform proportion.
The second is accurate observation, that is, correcting the geographical position between each other.
The third is road, that is, the road is separated from each other.
The fourth is high and low, the fifth is Fang Xie, and the sixth is roundabout. These three are adapted to local conditions, and respectively represent the difference between flat, dangerous and twists and turns.
If there is an image but no scale, there is no way to distinguish the difference between near and far; if there is a scale but no accurate sight, although it is accurate in one place, it must be wrong in other places; if there is a clear sight but no road, it is used in places isolated by mountains and seas, and there is no communication; if there is a road but no high and low, wrong, and roundabout corrections, the road alignment must be contrary to the reality of far and near, and the accuracy of the geographical position will be lost. Therefore, these six points must be used to verify each other.
Then the real number of distance is determined by the ratio, the actual distance between each other is determined by the accuracy, the actual distance of the road is determined by the road, and the actual difficulty of the road is determined by the calculation of high and low, square and roundabout.
Therefore, despite the obstacles of mountains and seas, the remoteness of a foreign land isolated from the rest of the world, and the reasons for circuitous climbs and descents, it can all be determined according to the map.
After the method of accurate prediction is determined, the right and wrong will become clear.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
秀创制朝仪，广陈刑政，朝廷多遵用之，以为故事。
在位四载，为当世名公。
服寒食散，当饮热酒而饮冷酒，泰始七年薨，时年四十八。
诏曰： 司空经德履哲，体蹈儒雅，佐命翼世，勋业弘茂。
方将宣献敷制，为世宗范，不幸薨殂，朕甚痛之。
其赐秘器、朝服一具、衣一袭、钱三十万、布百匹。
谥曰元。
初，秀以尚书三十六曹统事准例不明，宜使诸卿任职，未及奏而薨。
其友人料其书记，得表草言平吴之事，其词曰： 孙皓酷虐，不及圣明御世兼弱攻昧，使遗子孙，将遂不能臣；时有否泰，非万安之势也。
臣昔虽已屡言，未有成旨。
今既疾笃不起，谨重尸启。
愿陛下时共施用。
乃封以上闻。
诏报曰： 司空薨，痛悼不能去心。
又得表草，虽在危困，不忘王室，尽忠忧国。
省益伤切，辄当与诸贤共论也。
咸宁初，与石苞等并为王公，配享庙庭。
有二子：浚、頠。
浚嗣位，至散骑常侍，早卒。
浚庶子憬不惠，别封高阳亭侯，以浚少弟頠嗣。
頠字逸民。
弘雅有远识，博学稽古，自少知名。
御史中丞周弼见而叹曰： 頠若武库，五兵纵横，一时之杰也。
贾充即頠从母夫也，表 秀有佐命之勋，不幸嫡长丧亡，遗孤稚弱。
頠才德英茂，足以兴隆国嗣。
诏頠袭爵，頠固让，不许。
太康二年，徵为太子中庶子，迁散骑常侍。
惠帝既位，转国子祭酒，兼右军将军。
translation: 
Pei Xiu founded and formulated court etiquette and extensively stated criminal laws and decrees, which were mostly followed and adopted by the court as precedents.
He reigned for four years and was a famous minister at that time.
Pei Xiu was poorly dressed and did not eat on time. He drank cold wine when he should drink hot wine. He died in the seventh year of Taishi at the age of forty-eight.
The edict said: Sikong was wise, virtuous, and behaved elegantly. He assisted the emperor and supported the dynasty, and his merits and deeds were great.
Just when I was about to make a difference to amend the country's legal system, as a great master and model in the world, he unfortunately passed away. I was very sad.
Give him a noble coffin, a set of court robes, a piece of clothing, three hundred thousand dollars, and a hundred pieces of cloth.
Mi Hao Yuan.
At the beginning, Pei Xiu believed that the management of the thirty-six departments of Shangshu was not clear and that ministers should be allowed to serve. He would die before he could submit a memorial in the future.
His friend sorted out his manuscripts and found the draft above, which discussed the pacification of Wu. It said: Sun Hao is cruel and tyrannical. If he does not take advantage of the wise king to rule the country, he annexes the weak and attacks the ignorant, and leaves it to his descendants. He will not be able to make the enemy surrender. There are good and bad times in the world, and it is not always smooth.
Although I have said it many times, I have not written it into a memorial.
Now that I am seriously ill, I respectfully state it again.
May your Majesty implement it in due course.
Then he sealed the table and played it.
The edict replied: Sikong passed away, and the deep sorrow cannot be erased from my heart.
I also got the draft of the memorial. Although I was seriously ill, I did not forget the royal family and served the country with all my heart.
The more I read, the sadder I became, so I discussed it with all the wise ministers.
In the early years of Xianning, Shi Bao and others were princes and worthy of enjoying the imperial temple.
He has two sons: Pei Jun and Pei Po.
Pei Jun was the heir, and he often served as an official, but he died early.
Pei Jun's concubine Pei Jing was not smart, so he was granted the title of Marquis of Gaoyang Ting, and Pei Jun's younger brother Pei Dian succeeded him.
Pei Yuan's courtesy name is Yimin.
He is very elegant and far-sighted, has extensive knowledge and studied ancient affairs, and has been famous since he was a child.
Zhou Bi, the censor Zhongcheng, saw him and said with emotion: Pei Po is like an arsenal with all kinds of weapons. He is a hero for a while.
Jia Chong is the husband of Pei Dian's aunt. The above table says that Pei Xiu had the merits of assisting the emperor. Unfortunately, his eldest son died, leaving him orphaned and weak.
Pei Po has both talent and virtue, enough to be prosperous and granted a title.
Xia Shao asked Pei Po to inherit the title, but Pei Dian firmly refused, but the emperor refused.
In the second year of Taikang's reign, Pei Dian was conscripted as the crown prince's concubine and promoted to the rank of regular attendant of Sanqi.
Emperor Hui ascended the throne and was transferred to the post of Guozi Jijiu and general of the right army.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
初，頠兄子憬为白衣，頠论述世勋，赐爵高阳亭侯。
杨骏将诛也，骏党左军将军刘豫陈兵在门，遇頠，问太傅所在。
頠绐之曰： 向于西掖门遇公乘素车，从二人西出矣。
豫曰： 吾何之？
頠曰： 宜至廷尉。
豫从頠言，遂委而去。
寻而诏頠代豫领左军将军，屯万春门。
及骏诛，以功当封武昌侯，頠请以封憬，帝竟封頠次子该。
頠苦陈憬本承嫡，宜袭钜鹿，先帝恩旨，辞不获命。
武昌之封，己之所蒙，特请以封憬。
该时尚主，故帝不听。
累迁侍中。
时天下暂宁，頠奏修国学，刻石写经。
皇太子既讲，释奠祀孔子，饮飨射侯，甚有仪序。
又令荀籓终父勖之志，铸钟凿磬，以备郊庙朝享礼乐。
頠通博多闻，兼明医术。
荀勖之修律度也，检得古尺，短世所用四分有余。
頠上言： 宜改诸度量。
若未能悉革，可先改太医权衡。
此若差违，遂失神农、岐伯之正。
药物轻重，分两乖互，所可伤夭，为害尤深。
古寿考而今短折者，未必不由此也。
卒不能用。
乐广尝与頠清言，欲以理服之，而頠辞论丰博，广笑而不言。
时人谓頠为言谈之林薮。
頠以贾后不悦太子，抗表请增崇太子所生谢淑妃位号，仍启增置后卫率吏，给三千兵，于是东宫宿卫万人。
迁尚书，侍中如故，加光禄大夫。
每授一职，未尝不殷勤固让，表疏十余上，博引古今成败以为言，览之者莫不寒心。
頠深虑贾后乱政，与司空张华、侍中贾模议废之而立谢淑妃。
translation: 
At the beginning, Pei Jing, the son of Pei Yuan's elder brother, did not serve as an official. Pei Yuan discussed the merits of the generations, and Pei Jing was given the title of Marquis of Gaoyang Ting.
When Yang Jun was about to be killed, Yang Jun's ally Liu Yu, the general of the left army, was displaying soldiers at the gate. He met Pei Yi and asked where the tutor was.
Pei Xian lied to him and said: He met the Taifu near Xiyemen in a plain chariot and followed the two of them out to the west.
Liu Yu said: Where should I go?
Pei Yuan said: "We should go to Tingwei's place."
Liu Yu listened to Pei Hao's words, gave up resistance and left.
Soon the imperial edict ordered Pei Han to replace Liu Yu and serve as the general of the Zuo Army and station troops at Wanchunmen.
When Yang Jun was killed, Pei Shou should be granted the title of Marquis of Wuchang for his meritorious service. Pei Gu requested that the title be granted to Pei Jing, and the emperor finally granted the title to Pei Shou's second son, Pei Gai.
Pei Jing repeatedly stated that Pei Jing was his direct descendant and should inherit the title of Julu County Duke. The late emperor had given me the favor and decree, and I couldn't refuse.
I deserve the grant from Wuchang, and I hereby request that it be bestowed upon Pei Jing.
Pei Gai was related by marriage to the emperor at the time, so the emperor did not listen to Pei Gai's request.
He was promoted to the rank of Attendant many times.
At that time, the world was temporarily peaceful, and Pei Dian asked Jiang to study the state of China and carve stones to write scriptures.
The crown prince began to study, offered sacrifices to Confucius, and had banquets with Shehou, all in a very ceremonial and orderly manner.
He also ordered Gou Fan to fulfill his father Xun Xu's ambition and cast bells and chimes to use them in suburban temples for worship and banquets.
Pei Dian was knowledgeable and knowledgeable in medicine.
When Xunxu was revising the rules and regulations, he found that the ancient ruler was more than four minutes shorter than the contemporary ruler.
Pei Dian Shangshu said: All kinds of weights and measures should be corrected.
If you can't completely change it, you can change the imperial physician's measuring instruments first.
If there is any error in these measuring instruments, then the regulations of Shen Nong and Qi Bo will be lost.
The difference in the weight and weight of the medicine results in different properties, which can cause injury or death, causing even greater harm.
The reason why people in ancient times lived long lives but today people live short lives and die young may not be due to this reason.
It was ultimately not adopted.
Yue Guang once had a chat with Pei Po, trying to convince him with reason, but Pei Po was eloquent in reasoning, and Yue Guang smiled and said nothing.
People at that time said that Pei Yuan was rich in conversation and knowledgeable about everything.
Because Pei Xian didn't like the prince after buying it, he expressed his request to increase the status of the prince's biological mother, Concubine Xie Shu, and repeatedly stated that the number of guard officials should be increased and given to 3,000 soldiers, so the number of guards in the palace was increased to 10,000.
Pei Yi was promoted to minister, but his position as servant remained unchanged, and he was awarded the title of Guanglu doctor.
Every time he was given a position, he never gave it up without sincerity and resoluteness. He listed it more than ten times and widely quoted ancient and modern successes and failures as arguments. No one who read it was not wary.
Pei Dian was very worried that Empress Jia would disturb the state affairs, so he discussed with Sikong Zhanghua and Jia Mo to abolish Empress Jia and establish Concubine Xie Shu.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
华、模皆曰： 帝自无废黜之意，若吾等专行之，上心不以为是。
且诸王方刚，朋党异议，恐祸如发机，身死国危，无益社稷。
頠曰： 诚如公虑。
但昏虐之人，无所忌惮，乱可立待，将如之何？
华曰： 卿二人犹且见信，然勤为左右陈祸福之戒，冀无大悖。
幸天下尚安，庶可优游卒岁。
此谋遂寝。
頠旦夕劝说从母广城君，令戒喻贾后亲待太子而已。
或说頠曰： 幸与中宫内外可得尽言。言若不行，则可辞病屏退。
若二者不立，虽有十表，难乎免矣。
頠慨然久之，而竟不能行。
迁尚书左仆射，侍中如故。
頠虽后之亲属，然雅望素隆，四海不谓之以亲戚进也，惟恐其不居位。
俄复使頠专任门下事，固让，不听。
頠上言： 贾模适亡，复以臣代，崇外戚之望，彰偏私之举。
后族何常有能自保，皆知重亲无脱者也。
然汉二十四帝惟孝文、光武、明帝不重外戚，皆保其宗，岂将独贤，实以安理故也。
昔穆叔不拜越礼之飨，臣亦不敢闻殊常之诏。
又表云： 咎繇谟虞，伊尹相商，吕望翊周，萧张佐汉，咸播功化，光格四极。
暨于继体，咎单、傅说，祖己、樊仲，亦隆中兴。
或明扬侧陋，或起自庶族，岂非尚德之举，以臻斯美哉！
历观近世，不能慕远，溺于近情，多任后亲，以致不静。
昔疏广戒太子以舅氏为官属，前世以为知礼。
况朝廷何取于外戚，正复才均，尚当先其疏者，以明至公。
汉世不用冯野王，即其事也。
表上，皆优诏敦譬。
时以陈准子匡、韩蔚子嵩并侍东宫，頠谏曰： 东宫之建，以储皇极。
其所与游接，必简英俊，宜用成德。
匡、嵩幼弱，未识人理立身之节。
东宫实体夙成之表，而今有童子侍从之声，未是光阐遐风之弘理也。
愍怀太子之废也，頠与张华苦争不从，语在《华传》。
頠深患时俗放荡，不尊儒术，何晏、阮籍素有高名于世，口谈浮虚，不遵礼法，尸禄耽宠，仕不事事；至王衍之徒，声誉太盛，位高势重，不以物务自婴，遂相放效，风教陵迟，乃著崇有之论以释其蔽曰：
translation: 
Zhang Hua and Jia Mo both said: The emperor has no intention of deposing her. If we people do it on our own initiative, the emperor does not think it is right.
Moreover, if the kings are powerful and their factions have different opinions, I am afraid that disaster will be like a crossbow waiting to be fired. It will cost the country one's life and the country will be in danger, which will not benefit the country.
Pei Po said: It is indeed as you feared.
But stupid and cruel people have no scruples, and trouble is about to come. How will they deal with it?
Zhang Hua said: You two are still trusted and often give warnings about good and bad fortune to the emperor. I hope there will be no great rebellion.
Fortunately, the world is still peaceful, and I can almost die in peace.
After deposing Jia, the strategy was shelved.
Pei Po persuaded his aunt Guangcheng Jun every day to tell her to treat the prince well after buying him.
Someone said to Pei Yuan: I hope to have a clear talk with both inside and outside the harem. If what I say doesn't work, I will resign and retire on the grounds of illness.
If you can't do two of them, even if you go to the table ten times, it will still be inevitable.
Pei Fan sighed for a long time, but in the end he failed to do it.
He was promoted to Shangshu Zuopushe, but his position as servant remained unchanged.
Although Pei Hao is a relative of the queen, his reputation has always been very good. People all over the country do not think that he was promoted because of his relatives, and they are afraid that he will not hold a high position.
Soon Pei Po was asked to take charge of his duties, but he firmly declined, but the emperor did not allow it.
Pei Po Shangshu said: Jia Mo had just passed away, so he asked me to replace him, which expanded the reputation of my relative and became a selfish move.
How can the Queen's people always protect themselves? They all know that no relatives who are favored can escape disaster.
However, among the twenty-four emperors of the Mo Dynasty, only Emperors Xiaowen, Guangwu, and Ming paid no attention to their relatives, and those relatives preserved their clans. I not only wanted to gain a good reputation for myself, but also because I wanted to be at peace with the Tao.
In the past, Mu Zheng did not accept banquets that went beyond etiquette, and I did not dare to hear unusual edicts.
The above table also says: Jiu Yao planned for Shun, Yi Yin assisted Shang, Lu Wang assisted Zhou, and Xiao Zhang assisted Han. They all spread merit and enlightenment, and their light spread to all directions.
When the kings of each dynasty succeeded to the throne, Jiu Shan, Fu Shuo, Zu Ji, and Fan Zhong also made the country prosperous.
Some of them had a humble status before becoming famous, and some were from common people. Isn't this an act of advocating virtue and achieving a state of goodness and beauty?
Observing modern times, we cannot admire the ancients and indulge in those who are close to us. We often use relatives of the queen, which makes the country uneasy.
In the past, Su Chen warned the prince not to appoint his uncle as an official. In his previous life, he thought it was a sign of propriety.
Moreover, why should the imperial court appoint relatives whose moral character and talents are equal? ​​They should first appoint people with whom they are estranged to show fairness.
This is why King Feng Ye was not appointed in the Han Dynasty.
When I presented the form, I was always encouraged and enlightened by the emperor's kind words.
At that time, Chen Zhun's son Chen Kuang and Han Wei's son Han Song were appointed to serve the prince together. Pei Po advised: "The establishment of Shu Palace is to prepare the heir to the throne."
Those who associate with the prince must choose handsome talents and people with complete virtues.
Chen Kuang and Han Song were immature and did not know the principles of life and integrity.
The Prince of the East Palace has a precocious appearance, but now he has the tone of a boy's attendant, which is not in line with Everbright's future career.
When Prince Minhuai was deposed, Pei Dian argued hard with Zhang Hua but was not listened to. The incident was recorded in the "Biography of Zhang Hua".
Pei Han was very worried about the dissolute customs at that time and did not respect Confucianism. He Yan and Ruan Ji had always had a prominent reputation. They talked exaggeratedly and illusoryly, did not follow etiquette and laws, received empty salaries, indulged in favors, and did nothing when they were officials. As for people like Wang Yan, whose reputation was too great, whose status was high and powerful, they did not restrain themselves by engaging in government affairs, so they imitated each other, and their customs and education declined, so they wrote the theory of advocating something and opposing the theory of valuing nothing:


Chunk 7: 
original: 
夫总混群本，宗极之道也。
方以族异，庶类之品也。
形象著分，有生之体也。
化感错综，理迹之原也。
夫品而为族，则所禀者偏，偏无自足，故凭乎外资。
是以生而可寻，所谓理也。
理之所体，所谓有也。
有之所须，所谓资也。
资有攸合，所谓宜也。
择乎厥宜，所谓情也。
识智既授，虽出处异业，默语殊涂，所以宝生存宜，其情一也。
众理并而无害，故贵贱形焉。
失得由乎所接，故吉凶兆焉。
是以贤人君子，知欲不可绝，而交物有会。
观乎往复，稽中定务。
惟夫用天之道，分地之利，躬其力任，劳而后飨。
居以仁顺，守以恭俭，率以忠信，行以敬让，志无盈求，事无过用，乃可济乎！
故大建厥极，绥理群生，训物垂范，于是乎在，斯则圣人为政之由也。
若乃淫抗陵肆，则危害萌矣。
故欲衍则速患，情佚则怨博，擅恣则兴攻，专利则延寇，可谓以厚生而失生者也。
悠悠之徒，骇乎若兹之衅，而寻艰争所缘。
察夫偏质有弊，而睹简损之善，遂阐贵无之议，而建贱有之论。
贱有则必外形，外形则必遗制，遗制则必忽防，忽防则必忘礼。
礼制弗存，则无以为政矣。
众之从上，犹水之居器也。
故兆庶之情，信于所习；习则心服其业，业服则谓之理然。
是以君人必慎所教，班其政刑一切之务，分宅百姓，各授四职，能令禀命之者不肃而安，忽然忘异，莫有迁志。
况于据在三之尊，怀所隆之情，敦以为训者哉！
斯乃昏明所阶，不可不审。
夫盈欲可损而未可绝有也，过用可节而未可谓无贵也。
盖有讲言之具者，深列有形之故，盛称空无之美。
translation: 
The root of all things is the supreme way.
To limit things by the differences in their types is to evaluate all things.
The images are clearly distinct and are living objects.
The complex effects of change are the basis for exploring the truth.
Distinguishing groups through evaluation often relies on biases that are so biased that they cannot satisfy themselves, so they have to rely on external help.
Therefore, as soon as things happen, there are traces to be found, and creation is the so-called principle.
What is understood and understood is what is called existence.
Having something necessary is called capital.
The coordination of resources and resources is what is called appropriateness.
Choosing this kind of choice is called love.
After people gain knowledge, although they may enter or retire in different positions, or have different ways of keeping silent or speaking, they are all in order to cherish life and preserve it appropriately. This sentiment is the same.
Various things exist at the same time without harm, thus showing the nobility and baseness.
Gains and losses lie in the difference between high and low, so there are signs of good and bad.
Therefore, wise men and gentlemen know that desires cannot be cut off, so they have time to make friends with others.
Observe the interactions and decide how to act.
We can only adapt to the right time and place, do our best, work hard and then enjoy.
Adhere to be benevolent and obedient in dealing with things, insist on respect and frugality, act based on loyalty and trustworthiness, and act on the basis of humility and concessions. Determine not to seek too much, and do not act too high, so that you can achieve success.
Therefore, we strive to achieve the ultimate goal, appease and govern the people, and obey the principles of things to leave an example for future generations. This is the way for saints to govern.
If bullying is rampant and unbridled, harm will ensue.
Therefore, the spread of desire will accelerate disasters, uncontrolled emotions will increase the number of resentments, arbitrary indulgence will lead to attacks, and monopolization of interests will attract enemies. It can be said that trying to make life rich is counterproductive.
Vulgar people are afraid of such disputes, so they look for reasons for them.
Seeing the bias, he blamed Chongyou, and seeing the benefits of simplicity, he elaborated on the argument of valuing nothing, and then put forward the argument of devaluing something.
To belittle and admire something must have external manifestations, and the external manifestation must be to abandon regulations. If regulations are abandoned, precautions must be ignored. If precautions are ignored, etiquette must be forgotten.
If etiquette does not exist, it will be impossible to govern.
People obey those with high status like water in a vessel.
Therefore, the people's temperament is to believe what they are accustomed to; they are accustomed to be content with their jobs, and if they are content with their jobs, they take it for granted.
Therefore, the rulers must be careful to educate, promulgate political decrees, criminal laws and other matters, and let different people engage in agriculture, industry and commerce, so that those who accept the orders can be calm and not severe, forget heresy in a short period of time, and have no thoughts of change.
How much more is it based on the noble status of the king, master, and father, and the feelings of respect in the heart, as an instruction!
This is the difference between stupidity and sage, and we must be cautious.
The desire for wealth can be reduced but cannot be cut off; excessive material enjoyment can be saved, but it cannot be said that there is no wealth.
Those who talk eloquently list the shortcomings of worshiping something and praise the beauty of nothingness.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
形器之故有征，空无之义难检，辩巧之文可悦，似象之言足惑，众听眩焉，溺其成说。
虽颇有异此心者，辞不获济，屈于所狎，因谓虚无之理，诚不可盖。
唱而有和，多往弗反，遂薄综世之务，贱功烈之用，高浮游之业，埤经实之贤。
人情所殉，笃夫名利。
于是文者衍其辞，讷者赞其旨，染其众也。
是以立言藉于虚无，谓之玄妙；处官不亲所司，谓之雅远；奉身散其廉操，谓之旷达。
故砥砺之风，弥以陵迟。
放者因斯，或悖吉凶之礼，而忽容止之表，渎弃长幼之序，混漫贵贱之级。
其甚者至于裸裎，言笑忘宜，以不惜为弘，士行又亏矣。
老子既著五千之文，表摭秽杂之弊，甄举静一之义，有以令人释然自夷，合于《易》之《损》、《谦》、《艮》、《节》之旨。
而静一守本，无虚无之谓也；《损》《艮》之属，盖君子之一道，非《易》之所以为体守本无也。
观老子之书虽博有所经，而云 有生于无 ，以虚为主，偏立一家之辞，岂有以而然哉！
人之既生，以保生为全，全之所阶，以顺感为务。
若味近以亏业，则沈溺之衅兴；怀末以忘本，则天理之真灭。
故动之所交，存亡之会也。
夫有非有，于无非无；于无非无，于有非有。
是以申纵播之累，而著贵无之文。
将以绝所非之盈谬，存大善之中节，收流遁于既过，反澄正于胸怀。
宜其以无为辞，而旨在全有，故其辞曰 以为文不足 。
若斯，则是所寄之涂，一方之言也。
若谓至理信以无为宗，则偏而害当矣。
先贤达识，以非所滞，示之深论。
惟班固著难，未足折其情。
孙卿、杨雄大体抑之，犹偏有所许。
而虚无之言，日以广衍，众家扇起，各列其说。
上及造化，下被万事，莫不贵无，所存佥同。
情以众固，乃号凡有之理皆义之埤者，薄而鄙焉。
辩论人伦及经明之业，遂易门肆。
translation: 
Utensils have appearance characteristics, but empty meanings are difficult to test. Eloquent and clever words can make people happy, and seemingly true words can make people confused. People's hearing and hearing are confused, and they are addicted to the formed opinions.
Even if there are different opinions, the speech is not accepted, and it is wronged by what one likes, so the theory of nothingness cannot be covered up.
There is singing and harmony, and there is no return on the road of nothingness, so governance is belittled, utilitarianism is belittled, frivolous and wandering behavior is promoted, and pragmatic and capable people are belittled.
What favors pursue is actually fame and fortune.
So those who are good at writing exaggerate and those who are not good at eloquence praise their views, thus infecting the people.
Therefore, making an argument based on nothingness is called mysterious; being an official and not caring about his duties is called elegant and refined; being a person who is not honest and self-disciplined is called broad-minded.
As a result, the culture of hard work declined even more.
Because of the nihilistic world customs, some wild people violate the etiquette of good and bad things, neglect their manners and appearance, despise the etiquette between the elderly and the young, and disrupt the hierarchy of noble and inferior.
The most egregious among them even went naked, joked and laughed regardless of the time, and regarded being reckless as open-minded, and the moral character of the scholar-bureaucrats was damaged again.
Lao Tzu wrote an article of 5,000 words, clearly stating the shortcomings of filth and complexity, and clearly enumerating the principles of tranquility and single-mindedness.
However, being quiet and devoted to one's duties does not mean anything nihilistic. The categories "Shu" and "Gen" are probably just a kind of morality of a gentleman, not the original intention of "Yi".
Although Lao Tzu's works are extensive and eloquent, he says that "things are born from nothingness" and focus on emptiness, which is different from the theory of everyone establishing their own theory. I'm afraid there is a reason!
After a person is born, preservation of life is the first priority. The most important thing to preserve life is to obey one's own feelings.
If the purpose is close to harming the cause, then the signs of addiction begin; if one forgets his roots and forgets his roots, then the natural principles will also disappear.
Therefore, alternating actions before and after is related to the chance of survival.
To deny being when we admire existence is to deny existence when we value nothingness; to deny nothingness when we value nothingness is to deny existence when we admire existence.
Therefore, the disadvantages of indulgence are stated, and writing is valuable regardless of it.
He will eliminate the fallacies he denies, preserve the great goodness and conform to the law, end excessive dissipation, and return to tranquility and uprightness in his heart.
It is suitable for the theory of valuing nothing, and the main purpose is to admire existence, so there are words such as "it is not enough to succeed".
If this is the case, it is just a doctrine expressed.
It would be biased and inappropriate to think that the ultimate principle is based on nothingness.
The sages in ancient times were knowledgeable, not restrained, and made profound remarks.
Only Ban Gu's works are difficult and difficult to judge his views.
Sun Qing and Yang Xiong were generally depressed and indifferent, but they still expressed some praise.
And the theory of nihilism spreads day by day, and various schools of thought are instigated to launch their own theories.
From nature to everything, there is nothing that is not valuable, and everything remains the same.
Human feelings are stubborn due to the large number of people, so anyone who upholds the truth will be devalued and despised in moral terms.
Debate on human ethics and the doctrines of classics and meanings, so they all changed their doors.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
頠用矍然，申其所怀，而攻者盈集。
或以为一时口言。
有客幸过，咸见命著文，擿列虚无不允之征。
若未能每事释正，则无家之义弗可夺也。
頠退而思之，虽君子宅情，无求于显，及其立言，在乎达旨而已。
然去圣久远，异同纷纠，苟少有仿佛，可以崇济先典，扶明大业，有益于时，则惟患言之不能，焉得静默，及未举一隅，略示所存而已哉！
夫至无者无以能生，故始生者自生也。
自生而必体有，则有遗而生亏矣。
生以有为已分，则虚无是有之所谓遗者也。
故养既化之有，非无用之所能全也；理既有之众，非无为之所能循也。
心非事也，而制事必由于心，然不可以制事以非事，谓心为无也。
匠非器也，而制器必须于匠，然不可以制器以非器，谓匠非有也。
是以欲收重泉之鳞，非偃息之所能获也；陨高墉之禽，非静拱之所能捷也；审投弦饵之用，非无知之所能览也。
由此而观，济有者皆有也，虚无奚益于已有之群生哉！
王衍之徒攻难交至，并莫能屈。
又著《辩才论》，古今精义皆辨释焉，未成而遇祸。
初，赵王伦谄事贾后，頠甚恶之，伦数求官，頠与张华复固执不许，由是深为伦所怨。
伦又潜怀篡逆，欲先除朝望，因废贾后之际遂诛之，时年三十四。
二子嵩、该，伦亦欲害之。
梁王肜、东海王越称頠父秀有勋王室，配食太庙，不宜灭其后嗣，故得不死，徙带方；惠帝反正，追复頠本官，改葬以卿礼，谥曰成。
以嵩嗣爵，为中书黄门侍郎。
translation: 
Pei Po was frightened by this and expressed his thoughts. Many people attacked me.
Some people think this is a temporary remark.
Someone saw me and accused me of writing an article and selecting examples that were unfounded and biased.
If everything cannot be explained and corrected, then the theory of nobleness and nothingness cannot be overturned.
After I stepped back, I thought about it. Although a gentleman obeys human sentiments and does not seek to be prominent, when it comes to making an argument, he must express his own ideas.
However, it has been a long time since the age of saints, and different opinions are entangled. If there is a slight similarity, it can promote the classics of the ancestors, help the great cause, and be beneficial to the times. I am afraid that my remarks will not meet the requirements. How can I remain silent? As for the failure to cite examples, it is because I just briefly express what I think in my heart!
Extreme nobility cannot exist and thus begins to appear spontaneously.
Since it is born, it must tolerate and admire you, and if you abandon you, you will be harmed.
Once there is a distinction between advocating existence and valuing nothingness, then nothingness is just what Chongyou calls leaving and staying.
Therefore, in the final analysis, nourishment is transformed into existence, which cannot be accommodated by the theory of futility; reason is the aggregation of existence, which cannot be accommodated by inaction.
The mind is not a thing, and doing things must be based on thinking. However, we cannot say that doing things is not a thing, and think that the mind is nothing.
Craftsmen are not vessels, and craftsmen must be relied upon to make vessels. However, it cannot be said that the vessels made are not vessels, because there are no craftsmen.
Therefore, if you want to catch fish and dragons in the abyss, you can't just lie down; if you want to knock down birds on the high wall, you can't do it with your hands calmly; if you want to draw the bow string carefully, you can't do it by ignorance.
From this point of view, there are those who admire existence. What good does nothingness do to the people who already exist!
Attacks and accusations from people like Wang Yan came one after another, but they could not make him surrender.
He also wrote "Liancai Lun", which distinguished and explained the essence of ancient and modern principles, but he encountered disaster before he could complete it.
At first, when King Sima Lun of Zhao flattered Queen Jia, Pei Yu hated him very much. Sima Lun asked for an official position several times, but Pei Yu and Zhang Hua firmly opposed it many times, so they were deeply resented by Sima Lun.
Ou Jian, the king of Zhao, secretly wanted to usurp power and rebel. He wanted to get rid of the prestigious people in the court first, and took advantage of the opportunity of deposing the post-buyer to kill Pei Qing. He was thirty-four years old that year.
His two sons, Song and Gai, and King Sima Lun of Zhao also wanted to kill them.
King Xu of Liang and King Sima Yue of Donghai said that Pei Xiu, Pei Xiu's father, had made great contributions to the royal family and deserved to be in the Ancestral Temple, so it was not appropriate to exterminate his descendants. Therefore, he was spared death and was exiled to Yingshi. Emperor Sai was re-established, and he posthumously recognized Pei Han as his former official. He was reburied according to the etiquette of the minister, and the title of Mi was completed.
Let Pei Song inherit the title and serve as the Minister of Huangmen of Zhongshu.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
该出后从伯凯，为散骑常侍，并为乞活贼陈午所害。
楷字叔则。
父徽，魏冀州刺史。
楷明悟有识量，弱冠知名，尤精《老》、《易》，少与王戎齐名。
锺会荐之于文帝，辟相国掾，迁尚书郎。
贾充改定律令，以楷为定科郎。
事毕，诏楷于御前执读，平议当否。
楷善宣吐，左右属目，听者忘倦。
武帝为抚军，妙选僚采，以楷为参军事。
吏部郎缺，文帝问其人于锺会。
会曰： 裴楷清通，王戎简要，皆其选也。
于是以楷为吏部郎。
楷风神高迈，容仪俊爽，博涉群书，特精理义，时人谓之 玉人 ，又称 见裴叔则如近玉山，映照人也 。
转中书郎，出入宫省，见者肃然改容。
武帝初登阼，探策以卜世数多少，而得一，帝不悦，群臣失色，莫有言者。
楷正容仪，和其声气，从容进曰： 臣闻天得一以清，地得一以宁，王侯得一以为天下贞。
武帝大悦，群臣皆称万岁。
俄拜散骑侍郎，累迁散骑常侍、河内太守，入为屯骑校尉、右军将军，转侍中。
石崇以功臣子有才气，与楷志趣各异，不与之交。
长水校尉孙季舒尝与崇酣燕，慢傲过度，崇欲表免之。
楷闻之，谓崇曰： 足下饮人狂药，责人正礼，不亦乖乎！
崇乃止。
楷性宽厚，与物无忤。
不持俭素，每游荣贵，辄取其珍玩。
虽车马器服，宿昔之间，便以施诸穷乏。
尝营别宅，其从兄衍见而悦之，即以宅与衍。
梁、赵二王，国之近属，贵重当时，楷岁请二国租钱百万，以散亲族。
人或讥之，楷曰： 损有余以补不足，天之道也。
translation: 
After Zhanxi left the capital, he followed his uncle Pei Hung and served as a regular attendant on Sanqi. They were all killed by the wandering bandit Chen Wu.
Pei Kai's courtesy name is Shuze.
His father, Pei Hui, served as the governor of Jizhou in Wei.
Smart and knowledgeable, he became famous at the age of twenty. He was especially proficient in "Laokan" and "Yijing". He had the same reputation as Wang Rong when he was young.
Zhong Hui recommended him to Emperor Wen, appointed him as Prime Minister, and promoted him to Shangshu Lang.
He revised the laws and regulations and appointed Pei Kai as Ding Kelang.
After the matter was completed, Pei Kai was ordered to read the memorial in front of the emperor and comment on whether the memorial was appropriate.
Zhanji is good at making remarks and looking around, making the listeners forget their tiredness.
When Gen Tong was in charge of the Fu Army, he selected his colleagues and appointed Hong Chong as a member of the military.
There was a shortage of officials, so the workers asked the bell box who would be suitable.
The clock box said: Pei Kai is shrewd and understanding, and Wang Rong is simple in his work. They are both suitable candidates.
So Pei Kai was appointed as the official.
Pei Kai was elegant, handsome, well-read, and particularly proficient in theory and theory. People at the time called him the "Jade Man" and said that "seeing Uncle Pei was like approaching Jade Mountain, radiant and radiant."
He was transferred to Zhongshu Lang and went in and out of the palace. Everyone who saw him was in awe.
When Genyou first ascended the throne, he used the method of picking out simple policies to divine how many years he would be in power. What he found was one, and the emperor was not happy. The ministers were nervous and no one spoke.
Pei Kai adjusted his appearance, made his voice pleasant, and calmly stepped forward and said: I heard that the sky will be clear when one is received, the earth will be peaceful when one is received, and the princes and princes will be loyal if one is received.
Emperor Wu was very happy, and all the ministers shouted long live.
Soon he became the Minister of Sanqi, and gradually rose to the rank of Changshi of Sanqi, and the prefect of Hanoi. He entered the capital and served as the captain of the Tunqi School, the general of the right army, and then transferred to the position of Minister.
Because Shi Chong was the descendant of a meritorious official and was talented, he had different interests from Pei Ji and did not associate with Cha Zhi.
Captain Changshui Zhongzhong once had a drink with Hu Sai and was too arrogant. Shi Sai wanted to go to court to remove him.
When Li Ji heard about it, he said to Shi Chong: "Isn't it a bit contradictory to ask people to drink crazy medicine and also ask others to observe etiquette?"
Shi Chong then gave up.
Pei Kai was generous by nature and had no grudges against others.
He does not advocate simplicity. Whenever he goes to a prosperous and wealthy place, he takes away other people's treasures and antiques.
Even carriages, horses, equipment and clothing were given to the poor in a short time.
He once ran a villa. His cousin Pei Yan liked it after seeing it, so Pei Kai gave the house to Pei Yan.
The two kings of Liang and Tang were close relatives of the monarch and had a prominent position at that time. Pei Kai asked two feudal lords to rent millions of dollars every year and distributed them to his relatives.
Someone ridiculed Pei Kai, and Pei Kui said: "It is the way of heaven to make up for the losses."


Chunk 11: 
original: 
安于毁誉，其行己任率，皆此类也。
与山涛、和峤并以盛德居位，帝尝问曰： 朕应天顺时，海内更始，天下风声，何得何失？
楷对曰： 陛下受命，四海承风，所以未比德于尧舜者，但以贾充之徒尚在朝耳。
方宜引天下贤人，与弘正道，不宜示人以私。
时任恺、庾纯亦以充为言，帝乃出充为关中都督。
充纳女于太子，乃止。
平吴之后，帝方修太平之化，每延公卿，与论政道。
楷陈三五之风，次叙汉魏盛衰之迹。
帝称善，坐者叹服焉。
楷子瓚娶杨骏女，然楷素轻骏，与之不平。
骏既执政，乃转为卫尉，迁太子少师，优游无事，默如也。
及骏诛，楷以婚亲收付廷尉，将加法。
是日事仓卒，诛戮纵横，众人为之震恐。
楷容色不变，举动自若，索纸笔与亲故书。
赖侍中傅祗救护得免，犹坐去官。
太保卫瓘、太宰亮称楷贞正不阿附，宜蒙爵土，乃封临海侯，食邑二千户。
代楚王玮为北军中候，加散骑常侍。
玮怨瓘、亮斥己任楷，楷闻之，不敢拜，转为尚书。
楷长子舆先娶亮女，女适卫瓘子，楷虑内难未已，求出外镇，除安南将军、假节、都督荆州诸军事，垂当发而玮果矫诏诛亮、瓘。玮以楷前夺己中候，又与亮、瓘婚亲，密遣讨楷。
楷素知玮有望于己，闻有变，单车入城，匿于妻父王浑家，与亮小子一夜八徙，故得免难。
玮既伏诛，以楷为中书令，加侍中，与张华、王戎并管机要。
楷有渴利疾，不乐处势。
translation: 
Not caring about other people's slander and doing what you want to do are all such situations.
Pei Kai, Shan Tao, and He Xuan were all officials with good moral character. The emperor once asked: I follow the heavens and the times, and the public opinion in the world will gain and lose by talking about it.
Pei Kai replied: Your Majesty accepts the destiny, and the world responds. The reason why he cannot compare with Yao and Shun in terms of virtue and governance is because people like Jia Chong are still in the court.
It is the right time to attract the wise men of the world and promote the right path, and it is not appropriate to show personal feelings to people.
At that time, Wang Kai and Zuo Zhong also commented on Jia Li in this way, and the emperor appointed Zhi Shi as the governor of Yizhong.
Zhitong offered his daughter to the prince and then stayed.
After pacifying the county, the emperor began to strive for peace in the world and often invited ministers to discuss political affairs with them.
Pei Kai described the styles of the Three Kings and Five Emperors, and then described the reasons for the rise and fall of the Han and Wei dynasties.
The emperor applauded, and everyone present was impressed.
Pei Kai's son Pei Zan married Yang Jun's daughter. However, Pei Kai always looked down on Yang Jun and had a bad relationship with him.
After Yang Jun came to power, Tomb Wall was transferred to Weiwei and then to Prince's Young Master. He was free and quiet, silent and seldom talked.
After Gui Gao was killed, he reported that his in-laws were arrested and handed over to Tingwei, who was about to be punished.
Things happened in a hurry that day, killings were everywhere, and everyone was terrified.
Pei Kai's expression remained unchanged and he moved freely. He asked for paper and pen to write letters to relatives and friends.
Fortunately, Fu Zhi, the attendant, saved him from death, but he was still convicted and dismissed from office.
Taibao Cui and Taizai Sima Kui praised Tomb's loyalty, integrity and non-flattery, and deserved to be granted a fief, so he was named Linhai Marquis with a settlement of 2,000 households.
He replaced King Si Wuli of Chu and was appointed as the middle marquis of the Northern Army, and was appointed as a regular attendant on the cavalry.
Sima Zhang resented Wei Ji and Sima Liang for rejecting him and appointing Ge Cuan. After hearing about it, Ge Chu did not dare to accept the appointment and was transferred to Shangshu.
Pei Kai's eldest son Pei Yu first married Liang's daughter, and the daughter he had found married Wei Cui's son. Considering that the civil strife had not subsided, Pei Kai requested to be appointed out of the capital and was appointed General Annan, Jiajie, and Commander-in-Chief of the Jingzhou Army. As expected, Sima Zhang was about to set out and executed Dan Wukui under the pretense of an imperial edict. Because Dong Zhi had previously seized his position as lieutenant general and was related by marriage to Sima Liang and Wei Jin, he secretly sent people to attack Pei Kai.
Pei Kai always knew that Sima Zhang was resentful of him. When he heard that something had happened, he drove into the city alone and hid in his father-in-law Wang Yun's house. He changed residences with Sima Hao's youngest son eight times a night, thus avoiding disaster.
After Sima Zhang was executed, he appointed Pei Kai as the Secretary of the Zhongshu Ling, and as a servant of the Zhongshu, jointly managing the affairs of the Zhongshu with Zhang Hua and Wang Rong.
Pei Kai had the problem of longing for power and was dissatisfied with his official position.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
王浑为楷请曰： 楷受先帝拔擢之恩，复蒙陛下宠遇，诚竭节之秋也。
然楷性不竞于物，昔为常侍，求出为河内太守；后为侍中，复求出为河南尹；与杨骏不平，求为卫尉；及转东宫，班在时类之下，安于淡退，有识有以见其心也。
楷今委顿，臣深忧之。
光禄勋缺，以为可用。
今张华在中书，王戎在尚书，足举其契，无为复令楷入，名臣不多，当见将养，不违其志，要其远济之益。
不听，就加光禄大夫、开府仪同三司。
及疾笃，诏遣黄门郎王衍省疾，楷回眸瞩之曰： 竟未相识。
衍深叹其神俊。
楷有知人之鉴，初在河南，乐广侨居郡界，未知名，楷见而奇之，致之于宰府。
尝目夏侯玄云 肃肃如入宗庙中，但见礼乐器 ，锺会 如观武库森森，但见矛戟在前 ，傅嘏 汪翔靡所不见 ，山涛 若登山临下，幽然深远 。
初，楷家炊黍在甑，或变如拳，或作血，或作芜菁子。
其年而卒，时年五十五，谥曰元。
有五子：舆、瓚、宪、礼、逊。
舆字祖明。
少袭父爵，官至散骑侍郎，卒谥曰简。
瓚字国宝，中书郎，风神高迈，见者皆敬之。
特为王绥所重，每从其游。
绥父戎谓之曰： 国宝初不来，汝数往，何也？
对曰： 国宝虽不知绥，绥自知国宝。
杨骏之诛，为乱兵所害。
宪字景思。
少而颖悟，好交轻侠。
及弱冠，更折节严重，修尚儒学，足不逾阈者数年。
陈郡谢鲲、颍川庾敳皆俊郎士也，见而奇之，相谓曰： 裴宪鲠亮宏达，通机识命，不知其何如父；至于深弘保素，不以世物婴心者，其殆过之。
初，侍讲东宫，历黄门吏部郎、侍中。
东海王越以为豫州刺史、北中郎将、假节。
王浚承制，以宪为尚书。
永嘉末，王浚为石勒所破，枣嵩等莫不谢罪军门，贡赂交错，惟宪及荀绰恬然私室。
translation: 
Wang Hun pleads for Pei Kai, saying: Pei Kai was favored by the promotion of the previous emperor, and was favored by your majesty. It was the autumn of his utmost loyalty.
However, Pei Kai was not good at competition by nature. He used to be a regular servant and asked to be appointed as the governor of Hanoi. Later he was appointed as the servant and asked to be appointed as the Yin of Henan. He had a disagreement with Yang Jun and asked to be appointed as a guard. When he was transferred to Shu Palace, his position was lower than that of his peers at that time. However, he was content to retire indifferently. People with knowledge can see his thoughts.
I am deeply worried that Pei Kai is not cheering up now.
Guang Luxun is short of personnel, I think he can be appointed.
Now that Zhang Hua is in Zhongshu and Wang Rong is in Shangshu, they are enough to control the documents. There is no need for Pei Kai to intervene. There are not many famous officials, so they should be supported and not go against their wishes for long-term benefits.
If he is not accepted, he will be appointed as Guanglu Doctor and Kaifu Yitong.
When he became seriously ill, he issued an edict to send Huangmenlang Wang Yan to visit him. Pei Kai looked back at him and said, "I have never seen him before."
Wang Yan was deeply impressed by his superior intelligence.
Pei Kai was good at identifying talents. At first in Henan, Yue Guang was living in the county and had no reputation. When Pei Kai saw him, he thought he was a strange person and introduced him to the Zaifu.
I once read Xia Houxuan's words: "It's like walking into the ancestral temple respectfully, only seeing the ritual instruments; seeing Zhong Hui said, it's like seeing an armory, only seeing the spears and halberds in front of me; seeing Fu Gu, saying that the ocean is omnipresent; seeing the mountain waves, it's like looking down from a mountain, deep and quiet."
At first, when Pei Kai's family was cooking, some of the yellow rice in the pot became like fists, some like blood, and some like turnip seeds.
Pei Kai died in the year of Zao, at the age of fifty-five, and his title was Yuan.
He has five sons: Pei Yu, Pei Zan, Pei Xian, Pei Li, and Pei Xun.
Pei Yu's courtesy name was Zuming.
He inherited his father's title when he was young, and he rose to the rank of Sanqi Shilang. After his death, he was given the nickname Mi Jian.
Pei Zan, also known as National Treasure, served as Zhongshu Lang. He was very talented and respected by everyone who saw him.
He was especially valued by Wang Sui and often traveled with him.
Wang Sui's father Wang Rong said to him: The national treasure didn't come at first, but you went to him many times. Why?
He replied: Although the national treasure does not understand Wang Sui, Wang Sui himself understands the national treasure.
During the Yang Jun Rebellion, he was killed by the rebels.
Pei Xian's courtesy name is Jingsi.
Young and smart, he likes to make friends.
When he was twenty years old, he completely changed his daily ambitions and advocated Confucianism. He was unable to produce anything for several years.
Xie Kun of Chen County and Yu Gu of Yingchuan were both talented people. They were surprised to see Pei Xian and said to each other: Pei Xian is upright and open-minded. He knows the situation well and is better than his father. As for his deep innocence and not bothering himself with worldly things, he is probably better than his father.
At first, he served as a minister in the East Palace, and successively served as a minister and minister in Huangmen.
Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, appointed him as the governor of Yuzhou, the general of Beizhong Lang, and the governor of Jiajie.
Wang Jun took power and appointed Pei Xian as minister.
In the last years of Yongjia, Wang Jun was defeated by Shi Le. Zaosong and others all went to the military gate to apologize. People who paid tribute and bribed people came and went, but only Hu and Bao Wei stayed at home safely.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
勒素闻其名，召而谓之曰： 王浚虐暴幽州，人鬼同疾。
孤恭行乾宪，拯兹黎元，羁旧咸欢，庆谢交路。
二君齐恶傲威，诚信岨绝，防风之戮，将谁归乎？
宪神色侃然，泣而对曰： 臣等世荷晋荣，恩遇隆重。
王浚凶粗丑正，尚晋之遗籓。
虽欣圣化，义岨诚心。
且武王伐纣，表商容之闾，未闻商容在倒戈之例也。
明公既不欲以道化厉物，必于刑忍为治者，防风之戮，臣之分也。请就辟有司。
不拜而出。
勒深嘉之，待以宾礼。
勒乃簿王浚官寮亲属，皆赀至巨万，惟宪与荀绰家有书百余帙，盐米各十数斛而已。
勒闻之，谓其长史张宾曰： 名不虚也。
吾不喜得幽州，喜获二子。
署从事中郎，出为长乐太守。
及勒僭号，未遑制度，与王波为之撰朝仪，于是宪章文物，拟于王者。
勒大悦，署太中大夫，迁司徒。
及季龙之世，弥加礼重。
宪有二子：挹、，并以文才知名。
仕季龙为太子中庶子、散骑常侍。
挹、俱豪侠耽酒，好臧否人物。
与河间邢鱼有隙，鱼窃乘马奔段辽，为人所获，鱼诬使己以季龙当袭鲜卑，告之为备。
时季龙适谋伐辽，而与鱼辞正合。
季龙悉诛挹、，宪亦坐免。
未几，复以为右光禄大夫、司徒、太傅，封安定郡公。
宪历官无干绩之称，然在朝玄默，未尝以物务经怀。
但以德重名高，动见尊礼。
竟卒于石氏，以族人峙子迈为嗣。
楷长兄黎，次兄康，并知名。
康子盾，少历显位。
永嘉中，为徐州刺史，委任长史司马奥。
translation: 
Shi Leping knew their reputation, so he summoned them and said to them: "Wang Jun is tyrannical in Youzhou, and both humans and ghosts hate him."
I personally follow the way of heaven and save the people. Those who are in distress are happy, and the roads are filled with celebrations and thanksgivings.
Both of you hate lustful power, block integrity, and who will be blamed for such killings like Fangfeng?
Pei Xian looked calm and cried and replied: "We have enjoyed the glory of Jin for generations, and the grace ceremony was grand."
Wang Jun was ferocious and brutal, but he was still a vassal state left by the Jin Dynasty.
Although I rejoice in the teachings of the Holy Ming, righteousness hinders my sincerity.
Besides, King Wu conquered Zhou and modified Shang Rong's door. I didn't hear that Shang Rong participated in the rebellion against Shang.
Since the king is unwilling to use Tao to influence all things, he must use cruelty as a means of governance. It is my responsibility to kill like Fang Feng. Please hand me over to the officials to deal with it according to law.
If it doesn't work, then bow out.
Shi Le praised him very much and treated him with the courtesy of a guest.
Shi Le then registered the properties of Wang Jun's officials and relatives, all of whom had tens of thousands of wealth. Only the families of Pei Xian and Xun Chuo had more than a hundred letters and only a dozen bushels of salt and rice each.
When Shi Le heard about this, he said to his chief historian Zhang Bin: "The reputation is well-deserved."
I was not happy to get Youzhou. What I was happy about was that I got to send two people.
Acted as a lieutenant and served as the prefect of Changle.
When Shi Le usurped his title, it was too late to take into account the system. Pei Xianyu and Wang Bo wrote court etiquette for him, so he chartered cultural relics and compared them to the emperor.
Shi Le was very happy and appointed him as acting Taizhong doctor and promoted him to Situ.
During Jilong's era, he was even more polite and respected.
Pei Xian had two sons: Pei Yi and Pei Yu, both of whom were famous for their literary talents.
Pei Yi was appointed as the concubine of Prince Jilong and a regular attendant of Sanqi.
Pei Yi and Pei Yu were both bold and chivalrous, indulged in drinking, and liked to praise and criticize people.
There was a conflict with Xing Yu in Hejian. Xing Yu secretly rode Pei Yu's horse to Duan Liao and was caught. Xing Yu lied that Pei Yu sent him because Ji Long wanted to attack Xianbei and told them to be prepared.
At that time, Ji Long was planning to attack Duan Liao, which coincided with Xing Yu's words.
Ji Long killed Pei Yi and Pei Yu, and Pei Xian was also convicted and dismissed from office.
Soon, he was appointed Dr. Youguanglu, Situ, and Taifu, and was granted the title of Duke of Anding County.
Pei Xian had never been in an official position and had no reputation for performance. However, he was silent in the court and never took official affairs to heart.
But because of his high moral character, every move he makes is treated with respect and courtesy.
Eventually he died in the hands of the Shi family, and Pei Mai, the son of his tribe member Pei Zhi, was used as his descendant.
Pei Kai's eldest brother Pei Li and second brother Pei Kang are both well-known.
Pei Kang's son Pei Dun held prominent official positions successively when he was young.
During the Yongjia period, he served as the governor of Xuzhou and appointed the chief historian Sima Ao.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
奥劝盾刑杀立威，大发良人为兵，有不奉法者罪便至死。
在任三年，百姓嗟怨。
东海王越，盾妹夫也。
越既薨，骑督满衡便引所发良人东还。
寻而刘元海遣将王桑、赵固向彭城，前锋数骑至下邳，文武不堪苛政，悉皆散走，盾、奥奔淮阴，妻子为贼人所得。
奥又诱盾降赵固。
固妻盾女，有宠，盾向女涕泣，固遂杀之。
盾弟邵，字道期。
元帝为安东将军，以邵为长史，王导为司马，二人相与为深交。
征为太子中庶子，复转散骑常侍，使持节、都督扬州江西淮北诸军事、东中郎将，随越出项，而卒于军中。
及王导为司空，既拜，叹曰： 裴道期、刘王乔在，吾不得独登此位。
导子仲豫与康同字，导思旧好，乃改为敬豫焉。
楷弟绰，字季舒，器宇宏旷，官至黄门侍郎、长水校尉。
绰子遐，善言玄理，音辞清暢，泠然若琴瑟。
尝与河南郭象谈论，一坐嗟服。
又尝在平东将军周馥坐，与人围棋。
馥司马行酒，遐未即饮，司马醉怒，因曳遐堕地。
遐徐起还坐，颜色不变，复棋如故。
其性虚和如此。
东海王越引为主簿，后为越子毗所害。
初，裴、王二族盛于魏晋之世，时人以为八裴方八王：徽比王祥，楷比王衍，康比王绥，绰比王澄，瓚比王敦，遐比王导，頠比王戎，邈比王玄云。
史臣曰：周称多士，汉曰得人，取类星象，颉颃符契。
时乏名流，多以干翮相许，自家光国，岂陈骞之谓欤！
秀则声盖朋僚，称为领袖。
楷则机神幼发，目以清通。
俱为晋氏名臣，良有以也。
translation: 
Sima Ao advised Pei Dun to use punishment and execution to establish his prestige, recruit civilians as soldiers on a large scale, and sentence those who did not abide by the law to death.
After three years in office, the people were resentful.
Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, was Pei Dun's brother-in-law.
After Sima Yue died, Riding Governor Man Heng led the civilians he had collected to return him.
Soon Liu Yuanhai sent generals Wang Sang and Tang Gu to send troops to Pengcheng. The vanguard arrived at Xiapi. The civil and military officials could not stand the harsh rule and all fled. Pei Dun and Sima Ao fled to Huaiyin, but their wives and children were captured by bandits.
Sima Ao also persuaded Pei Dun to surrender to Zhao Gu.
Zhao Gu's wife was Pei Dun's daughter and she was favored. Pei Dun cried to her daughter, so Zhao Gu killed Pei Dun.
Pei Dun's younger brother Pei Shao, named Daoqi.
When Emperor Yuan was General Anton, he appointed Pei Shao as the chief historian and Wang Dao as the Sima. The two had a close friendship.
Pei Shao was conscripted as the concubine of the crown prince, and was transferred to the rank of regular servant of Sanqi. He envoy Chijie, the governor of Yangzhou, Jiangxi and Huaibei military affairs, and Shuzhonglang general, followed Sima Yue to Xiangxiang, and died in the army.
When Director Wang became Sikong and took office, he sighed and said: "If Pei Daoqi and Liu Wangqiao are here, I can't hold this official position alone."
Director Wang's son Zhongyu had the same name as Pei Kang. Director Wang missed his old friend, so he changed his name to Jingyu.
Pei Kai's younger brother Pei Chuo, also known as Ji Shu, had a broad mind and served as the Minister of Huangmen and the Captain of Changshui.
Pei Chuo's son Pei Xia was good at talking about mysteries, his words were fluent, and he was as clear as the harp.
I once discussed it with Guo Xiang of Henan, and everyone in the room admired him.
He also played Go with others at Pingshu General Zhou Fu's place.
Zhou Fu's Sima persuaded Pei Xia to drink wine, but Pei Xia did not drink immediately. Sima got drunk and became angry, so he pulled Pei Xia to the ground.
Pei Xia slowly got up and returned to his seat, his expression unchanged, playing chess as before.
His character is so modest and peaceful.
Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, asked him to be the chief registrar, but he was later killed by Sima Yue's son Sima Bi.
At that time, the two families of Pei and Wang were very prosperous in the Wei and Jin Dynasties. People at that time believed that the eight surnames Pei were just like the eight surnames Wang: Pei Hui was better than Wang Xiang, Pei Kai was better than Wang Yan, Pei Kang was better than Wang Sui, Pei Chuo was better than Wang Cheng, Pei Zan was better than Wang Dun, Pei Xia was better than Wang Dao, Pei Yuan was better than Wang Rong, and Pei Miao was better than Wang Xuan.
Shi Chen said: The Zhou Dynasty was considered to have many scholars, and the Han Dynasty was said to have gained sages. They used the astrological analogy to correspond to the destiny.
There was a lack of celebrities at that time, and most people used the term "backbone" to praise him. His family was shining brightly on the country. Could it be that he was talking about Chen Qian?
Pei Xiu's reputation surpassed that of his colleagues and he was called a leader.
When he was young, Pei Kai was very resourceful and knowledgeable.
They are all famous officials of the Jin Dynasty, it is true!


Chunk 15: 
original: 
赞曰：世既顺才，才膺世至。
高平沈敏，蕴兹名器。
钜鹿自然，亦云经笥。
娲皇炼石，晋图开秘。
頠有清规，承家来媚。
translation: 
Praise says: In troubled times, talents emerge, and talents gather together to make the world peaceful.
Gao Pinggong was calm and intelligent, and eventually became a great person.
Pei, the Duke of Julu County, was naturally handsome and knowledgeable in Confucian classics.
Emperor Wa made stones to mend the sky, and the Jin Dynasty books revealed the secrets.
Pei Dian followed the rules and was loved for inheriting the family business.


