Chunk 0: 
original: 
殷契，母曰简狄，有娀氏之女，为帝喾次妃。
三人行浴，见玄鸟堕其卵，简狄取吞之，因孕生契。
契长而佐禹治水有功。
帝舜乃命契曰： 百姓不亲，五品不训，汝为司徒而敬敷五教，五教在宽。
封于商，赐姓子氏。
契兴於唐、虞、大禹之际，功业著於百姓，百姓以平。
契卒，子昭明立。
昭明卒，子相土立。
相土卒，子昌若立。
昌若卒，子曹圉立。
曹圉卒，子冥立。
冥卒，子振立。
振卒，子微立。
微卒，子报丁立。
报丁卒，子报乙立。
报乙卒，子报丙立。
报丙卒，子主壬立。
主壬卒，子主癸立。
主癸卒，子天乙立，是为成汤。
成汤，自契至汤八迁。
汤始居亳，从先王居，作帝诰。
汤征诸侯。
葛伯不祀，汤始伐之。
汤曰： 予有言：人视水见形，视民知治不。 伊尹曰： 明哉！
言能听，道乃进。
君国子民，为善者皆在王官。
勉哉，勉哉！ 汤曰： 汝不能敬命，予大罚殛之，无有攸赦。
作汤征。伊尹名阿衡。
阿衡欲见汤而无由，乃为有莘氏媵臣，负鼎俎，以滋味说汤，致于王道。
或曰，伊尹处士，汤使人聘迎之，五反然後肯往从汤，言素王及九主之事。
汤举任以国政。
伊尹去汤适夏。既丑有夏，复归于亳。
入自北门，遇女鸠、女房，作女鸠女房。
translation: 
Yin Qi's mother's name was Jian Di. She was the daughter of the You'u family and the second concubine of Emperor Ku.
Jian Di and three other people went to the river to take a bath. When they saw an egg dropped by a black bird, Jian Di picked it up and swallowed it. As a result, she became pregnant and gave birth to Qi.
When Qi grew up, he assisted Yu in flood control.
Emperor Shun then made an appointment deed and said: Now the common people are not in harmony and the relationship between the five ethics is not smooth. If you are to serve as Situ, you must respectfully promote the education of the five ethics and take generosity as the foundation.
The deed was sealed in Shang Land and given the surname Zi.
Qi arose in the era of Tang Yao, Yu Shun, and Xia Yu. Its achievements were outstanding in the hearts of the people, and the people lived a stable life as a result.
After Qi's death, his son Zhaoming succeeded to the throne.
After Zhaoming's death, his son Xiangtu succeeded to the throne.
After Xiangtu died, his son Changruo succeeded to the throne.
After Chang Ruo died, his son Cao Yu succeeded to the throne.
After Cao Yu's death, his son Ming succeeded to the throne.
After Ming's death, his son Zhen succeeded to the throne.
After Zhen died, his son Wei succeeded to the throne.
After Wei's death, his son Baoding succeeded to the throne.
After Baoding died, his son Baoyi succeeded him.
After Bao Yi died, his son Bao B succeeded to the throne.
After Bao Bing died, his son Zhu Ren succeeded to the throne.
After the death of Zhu Ren, his son Zhu Gui succeeded to the throne.
After Zhugui died, his son Tianyi succeeded to the throne. This is the soup.
Chengtang, from Qi to Tang, had moved its capital eight times.
Chengtang wrote the "Emperor's Edict" for this purpose, reporting to Emperor Ku on the situation of moving the capital.
Chengtang was Fangbo in the Xia Dynasty and had the power to conquer the princes.
Ge Bo did not offer sacrifices to ghosts and gods, so Cheng Tang conquered him first.
Chengtang said: I have said this: People can see their own appearance from the water, and the state of governance of the country can be known from the mental outlook of the people. Yi Yin said: How wise!
Only when good words are heard can moral progress be made.
To govern the country and nurture the people, all those who are virtuous and do good deeds should be appointed as officials of the court. Work hard, work hard!
Chengtang said to Ge Bo: If you cannot respect the destiny of heaven, I will punish you severely without mercy.
So he wrote "Tang Zheng", recording the situation of Zheng Ge. Yiyin's name is Aheng.
A Heng wanted to meet Cheng Tang but had no way, so he went to serve as a married servant of the Youshen family. He carried a rice pot and chopping board and used the opportunity of talking about the taste of cooking to advise Cheng Tang and persuade him to practice the royal way.
Some people also say that Yi Yin was originally a hermit who was talented and virtuous but refused to be an official. Cheng Tang sent someone to hire him. After five trips, he agreed to follow Tang and tell Cheng Tang what the ancient emperors and the nine types of monarchs had done.
Chengtang then appointed him to manage the state affairs.
Yi Yin once left Shang Tang and went to the Xia capital. Because he saw the ugliness of the Xia Dynasty's lack of justice, he returned to Bo, the Shang capital.
When he entered the city from the north gate, he met Nu Jiu and Nv Fang, the virtuous ministers of Shang Tang, so he wrote "Nv Jiu" and "Nv Fang" to describe his feelings when he left the Xia Dynasty and returned to the Shang capital.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
汤出，见野张网四面，祝曰： 自天下四方皆入吾网。
汤曰： 嘻，尽之矣！
乃去其三面，祝曰： 欲左，左。欲右，右。
不用命，乃入吾网。
诸侯闻之，曰： 汤德至矣，及禽兽。
当是时，夏桀为虐政淫荒，而诸侯昆吾氏为乱。
汤乃兴师率诸侯，伊尹从汤，汤自把钺以伐昆吾，遂伐桀。
汤曰： 格女众庶，来，女悉听朕言。
匪台小子敢行举乱，有夏多罪，予维闻女众言，夏氏有罪。
予畏上帝，不敢不正。
今夏多罪，天命殛之。
今女有众，女曰： 我君不恤我众，舍我啬事而割政 。
女其曰： 有罪，其奈何 ？
夏王率止众力，率夺夏国。
众有率怠不和，曰： 是日何时丧？
予与女皆亡 ！
夏德若兹，今朕必往。
尔尚及予一人致天之罚，予其大理女。
女毋不信，朕不食言。
女不从誓言，予则帑僇女，无有攸赦。
以告令师，作汤誓。
於是汤曰： 吾甚武 ，号曰武王。
桀败於有娀之虚，桀奔於鸣条，夏师败绩。
汤遂伐三嵕，俘厥宝玉，义伯、仲伯作典宝。
汤既胜夏，欲迁其社，不可，作夏社。伊尹报。
於是诸侯毕服，汤乃践天子位，平定海内。
汤归至于泰卷陶，中垒作诰。
既绌夏命，还亳，作汤诰： 维三月，王自至於东郊。
告诸侯群后： 毋不有功於民，勤力乃事。
予乃大罚殛女，毋予怨。
translation: 
Chengtang went out and saw someone in the wild with a net set up on all sides. The person setting up the net prayed and said: May everything from heaven, everything from the earth, and everything from the four directions enter my net!
Chengtang heard this and said: Hey, this way we can catch all the animals!
So he asked the man to remove the three-sided net, and asked the person who set up the net to pray: If you want to go to the left, go to the left, and if you want to escape to the right, run to the right.
Anyone who disobeys orders will enter my snare.
When the princes heard about this, they all said: Tang Zhen is so kind and virtuous that even animals have been favored by him.
At that time, Xia Jie implemented a tyrannical rule and was immoral and immoral, and the princes Kunwu and his family were in trouble again.
Shang Tang then raised his troops and led the princes to conquer, and Yi Yin followed Tang. Shang Tang personally held a big ax to attack Kunwu, and then went to attack Xia Jie.
Shang Tang said: You people, come here and listen to me.
It's not that I dare to raise troops to cause trouble, it's because Xia Jie's crimes were extremely heinous. I also heard you say that Xia Jie was guilty.
I am afraid of God and dare not not conquer.
Now that Xia Jie has committed so many crimes, God ordered me to come and destroy him.
Now you people are all saying: Our king does not care about us and leaves our farm work behind, but goes to conquer and fight.
You also say: Xia Jie is guilty, so what can we do?
The king of Xia exhausted the country's people and stole the entire country's wealth.
The people of Xia State were lazy, passive, resentful and discordant. They all asked, "When will this sun perish?"
We would rather perish with you!
King Xia's virtue has reached this point, and now I must go to conquer him.
I hope you will join me in fulfilling the punishment sent by God, and I will reward you heavily.
Don't believe me, I will never fail to keep my word.
If you disobey my oath, I will punish you without mercy!
Shang Tang told these words to the chief messenger and wrote the "Tang Oath".
So Shang Tang said that I was very brave, so I was called King Wu.
Xia Jie was defeated in the old territory of the You'u family and fled to Mingtiao. The Xia army was defeated.
Shang Tang then attacked Sanke who were loyal to Xia Jie and seized their treasures, pearls and jade. Yibo and Zhongbo therefore wrote the "Dianbao", indicating that these were the fixed property of the country.
After Shang Tang defeated the Xia Dynasty, he wanted to replace the Xia Dynasty's social god. However, the social god was Zijulong, the ancient Gonggong clan. No one could compare with him, so he did not replace it. So he wrote "Xia She" to explain the reason why Xia She cannot be replaced.
Yi Yin reported this victory to Xiang. From then on, all the princes surrendered, and Shang Tang ascended to the throne of emperor and brought peace to the world.
Chengtang passed by Taijuan Tao on his way back, and the minister Zhong Hui made an edict.
Tang overthrew the Xia Dynasty, returned to the capital Bo, and wrote the "Tang Gao": In March of this year, King Yin personally arrived in the eastern suburbs.
Warning to all princes and kings: You must seek meritorious services for the people, and you must work hard to run your duties well.
Otherwise, I will punish you severely, so don’t blame me then.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
曰： 古禹、皋陶久劳于外，其有功乎民，民乃有安。
东为江，北为济，西为河，南为淮，四渎已修，万民乃有居。
后稷降播，农殖百谷。
三公咸有功于民，故後有立。
昔蚩尤与其大夫作乱百姓，帝乃弗予，有状。
先王言不可不勉。
曰： 不道，毋之在国，女毋我怨。
以令诸侯。
伊尹作咸有一德，咎单作明居。
汤乃改正朔，易服色，上白，朝会以昼。
汤崩，太子太丁未立而卒，於是乃立太丁之弟外丙，是为帝外丙。
帝外丙即位三年，崩，立外丙之弟中壬，是为帝中壬。
帝中壬即位四年，崩，伊尹乃立太丁之子太甲。
太甲，成汤适长孙也，是为帝太甲。
帝太甲元年，伊尹作伊训，作肆命，作徂后。
帝太甲既立三年，不明，暴虐，不遵汤法，乱德，於是伊尹放之於桐宫。
三年，伊尹摄行政当国，以朝诸侯。
帝太甲居桐宫三年，悔过自责，反善，於是伊尹乃迎帝太甲而授之政。
帝太甲修德，诸侯咸归殷，百姓以宁。
伊尹嘉之，乃作太甲训三篇，褒帝太甲，称太宗。
太宗崩，子沃丁立。
帝沃丁之时，伊尹卒。
既葬伊尹於亳，咎单遂训伊尹事，作沃丁。
沃丁崩，弟太庚立，是为帝太庚。
帝太庚崩，子帝小甲立。帝小甲崩，弟雍己立，是为帝雍己。
殷道衰，诸侯或不至。
帝雍己崩，弟太戊立，是为帝太戊。
帝太戊立伊陟为相。
亳有祥桑谷共生於朝，一暮大拱。
translation: 
He also said: In the past, Yu and Gaotao worked outside all year round. They established achievements for the people, and the people were able to live in peace.
They managed the Yangtze River in the east, the Jishui River in the north, the Yellow River in the west, and the Huai River in the south. They managed and dredged the four important rivers so that the people could live and work in peace and contentment.
Hou Ji taught the people to sow and cultivate, and then the people knew how to plant various crops.
All three of them served the people well, so their descendants were able to establish the country.
In the past, when Chi You and his ministers disturbed the people, God would not bless them. Such things really happened.
The teachings of the late king must be used to encourage yourself!
He also said: If any of you does something unethical and moral, then you will not be allowed to govern the people in the country. Then you should not resent me.
Tang warned the princes with these words.
Yi Yin wrote "Xian Yi De", explaining that monarchs and ministers should have pure moral character; Jiu Shan wrote "Ming Ju", which talked about the laws that the people should abide by.
Shang Tang then revised the calendar, changed the color of clothing, advocated white, and held court meetings during the day.
After the death of Shang Tang, the prince Taiding died before he ascended the throne, so Taiding's younger brother Waibing was made emperor. This was Emperor Waibing.
Emperor Waibing ascended the throne for three years. After his death, he made Waibing's younger brother Zhongren the emperor. This was Emperor Zhongren.
Four years after Zhongren ascended the throne, after his death, Yiyin supported Taiding's son Taijia as emperor.
Taijia, the eldest grandson of Chengtang, is Emperor Taijia.
In the first year of Taijia, Yi Yin wrote "Yi Xun", "Si Ming", and "Xu Hou", which stated what should be done according to the political and religious laws.
Emperor Taijia reigned for three years. His politics were unclear, his behavior was tyrannical, he did not abide by King Tang's laws, and his morals were corrupted. So Yi Yin exiled him to Tong Palace, where Tang is buried.
In the next three years, Yi Yin handled government affairs on behalf of the emperor, presided over state affairs, and accepted visits from princes.
Taijia lived in Tonggong for three years, reflected on and repented of his mistakes, and tried to be good again. So Yiyin welcomed Emperor Taijia back to the court and handed over the power to him.
Emperor Taijia practiced virtuous government, and the princes came to submit to the Yin and Shang Dynasties, and the people were peaceful.
Yi Yin admired Emperor Taijia very much, so he wrote three chapters of "Taijia Xun" to praise Emperor Taijia and called him Taizong.
After Taizong's death, his son Woding succeeded to the throne.
During the reign of Woding, Yi Yin passed away.
Yi Yin was buried in Bodi, so Jiu Shan wanted to use Yi Yin's deeds to instruct future generations, so he wrote "Woding".
When Woding died, his younger brother Tai Geng succeeded to the throne. This was Emperor Tai Geng.
After Taigeng died, his son Xiaojia came to the throne; after Emperor Xiaojia passed away, his younger brother Yongji succeeded to the throne, and this was Emperor Yongji.
At this time, the power of the Yin Dynasty had declined, and some princes stopped coming to court.
After Yong's death, his younger brother Taiwu came to the throne. This is Emperor Taiwu.
Taiwu appointed Yi Zhi as his prime minister.
At that time, there was a strange phenomenon of mulberry and mulberry trees growing together in the court hall in the capital, and they grew as thick as two hands together overnight.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
帝太戊惧，问伊陟。
伊陟曰： 臣闻妖不胜德，帝之政其有阙与？
帝其修德。
太戊从之，而祥桑枯死而去。
伊陟赞言于巫咸。
巫咸治王家有成，作咸艾，作太戊。
帝太戊赞伊陟于庙，言弗臣，伊陟让，作原命。
殷复兴，诸侯归之，故称中宗。
中宗崩，子帝中丁立。
帝中丁迁于隞。
河亶甲居相。祖乙迁于邢。
帝中丁崩，弟外壬立，是为帝外壬。
仲丁书阙不具。
帝外壬崩，弟河亶甲立，是为帝河亶甲。
河亶甲时，殷复衰。
河亶甲崩，子帝祖乙立。
帝祖乙立，殷复兴。
巫贤任职。
祖乙崩，子帝祖辛立。
帝祖辛崩，弟沃甲立，是为帝沃甲。
帝沃甲崩，立沃甲兄祖辛之子祖丁，是为帝祖丁。
帝祖丁崩，立弟沃甲之子南庚，是为帝南庚。
帝南庚崩，立帝祖丁之子阳甲，是为帝阳甲。
帝阳甲之时，殷衰。
自中丁以来，废適而更立诸弟子，弟子或争相代立，比九世乱，於是诸侯莫朝。
帝阳甲崩，弟盘庚立，是为帝盘庚。
帝盘庚之时，殷已都河北，盘庚渡河南，复居成汤之故居，乃五迁，无定处。
殷民咨胥皆怨，不欲徙。
盘庚乃告谕诸侯大臣曰： 昔高后成汤与尔之先祖俱定天下，法则可修。
舍而弗勉，何以成德！
乃遂涉河南，治亳，行汤之政，然後百姓由宁，殷道复兴。
诸侯来朝，以其遵成汤之德也。
帝盘庚崩，弟小辛立，是为帝小辛。
帝小辛立，殷复衰。
百姓思盘庚，乃作盘庚三篇。
帝小辛崩，弟小乙立，是为帝小乙。
帝小乙崩，子帝武丁立。
帝武丁即位，思复兴殷，而未得其佐。
translation: 
Emperor Taiwu felt very scared and went to ask Yi Zhi.
Yi Zhi said: I once heard that monsters cannot defeat virtuous people. Could it be that there are some flaws in your governance?
I hope you will still improve your moral character.
Taiwu followed Yi Zhi's advice, and the strange mulberry tree withered and disappeared.
Yi Zhi praised Wu Xian and told him about it.
Wu Xian was effective in managing the royal family's affairs. He wrote "Xianai" and "Taiwu", which recorded his achievements in governing the government and praised Emperor Taiwu's obedience and virtue.
Emperor Taiwu praised Yi Zhi in the Ancestral Temple and said that he could not be treated like other ministers. Yi Zhiqian refused and wrote "Original Fate" to reinterpret Taiwu's fate.
In this way, Yin became prosperous again, and the princes came to submit. Therefore, Emperor Taiwu was called Zhongzong.
After Zhongzong's death, his son Zhongding succeeded to the throne.
Emperor Zhongding moved the capital to Xian.
He Danjia later made his capital in Xiang, and Zu Yi moved his capital to Xing.
After the death of Emperor Zhongding, his younger brother Wairen came to the throne. This was Emperor Wairen.
"Zhongding" once recorded these things, but the book has been lost.
After the death of Emperor Wai Ren, his younger brother He Danjia succeeded him. This was Emperor Hedanjia.
When He Danjia was in power, the power of the Yin Dynasty weakened again.
After the death of He Danjia, his son Zuyi succeeded to the throne.
After Emperor Zuyi came to the throne, Yin prospered again.
Minister Wu Xian was appointed to an important position.
After the death of Zu Yi, his son Emperor Zu Xin came to the throne.
After the death of Emperor Zuxin, his younger brother Wojia came to the throne. This was Emperor Wojia.
After Wo Jia's death, Zu Ding, the son of Wo Jia's brother Zu Xin, came to the throne. This was Emperor Zu Ding.
After the death of Zuding, his younger brother Wojia's son Nangeng ascended the throne. This was Emperor Nangeng.
After the death of Emperor Nangeng, Emperor Zuding's son Yangjia came to the throne. This was Emperor Yangjia.
When Emperor Yangjia was on the throne, Yin's country was weak.
Since the time of Emperor Zhongding, the legitimate sons have been deposed and replaced by brothers and brothers' sons. Their brothers and their sons sometimes fight with each other to obtain the throne. There has been chaos for nine consecutive generations, so the princes have not come to court again.
After the death of Emperor Yangjia, his younger brother Pan Geng succeeded to the throne. This was Emperor Pan Geng.
When Pan Geng was in power, the Yin Dynasty had established its capital in Amadi, north of the Yellow River. Pan Geng crossed the Yellow River and settled in Bo, Chengtang's former residence, south of the Yellow River.
So far, this is the fifth time the capital has been moved, and there has never been a fixed capital.
Everyone in the Yin Dynasty sighed and complained, unwilling to move again. Pan Geng then told the princes and ministers: "The great former king Chengtang and your ancestors worked together to bring peace to the world, and their laws and regulations should be abided by."
If we give up and do not work hard to pursue it, how can we achieve virtue?
So he crossed the Yellow River to the south bank, managed and repaired it, and obeyed and implemented Chengtang's decree. After that, the people were able to stabilize and the Yin Dynasty prospered again.
The princes also came to see him one after another. This was because Pan Geng followed Cheng Tang's moral policy.
After the death of Emperor Pan Geng, his younger brother Xiao Xin came to the throne. This is Emperor Xiao Xin.
When Xiao Xin was in power, Yin became weak again.
The people missed Pan Geng, so they wrote three chapters of "Pangeng".
After Emperor Xiao Xin passed away, his younger brother Xiao Yi came to the throne. This was Emperor Xiao Yi.
After the death of Emperor Xiao Yi, his son Wu Ding came to the throne.
After Emperor Wu Ding came to the throne, he wanted to revive the Yin Dynasty, but there was no suitable minister to assist him.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
三年不言，政事决定於冢宰，以观国风。
武丁夜梦得圣人，名曰说。
以梦所见视群臣百吏，皆非也。
於是乃使百工营求之野，得说於傅险中。
是时说为胥靡，筑於傅险。
见於武丁，武丁曰是也。
得而与之语，果圣人，举以为相，殷国大治。
故遂以傅险姓之，号曰傅说。
帝武丁祭成汤，明日，有飞雉登鼎耳而呴，武丁惧。
祖己曰： 王勿忧，先修政事。
祖己乃训王曰： 唯天监下典厥义，降年有永有不永，非天夭民，中绝其命。
民有不若德，不听罪，天既附命正厥德，乃曰其奈何。
鸣呼！王嗣敬民，罔非天继，常祀毋礼于弃道。
武丁修政行德，天下咸驩，殷道复兴。
帝武丁崩，子帝祖庚立。
祖己嘉武丁之以祥雉为德，立其庙为高宗，遂作高宗肜日及训。
帝祖庚崩，弟祖甲立，是为帝甲。
帝甲淫乱，殷复衰。
帝甲崩，子帝廪辛立。
帝廪辛崩，弟庚丁立，是为帝庚丁。
帝庚丁崩，子帝武乙立。
殷复去亳，徙河北。
帝武乙无道，为偶人，谓之天神。
与之博，令人为行。
天神不胜，乃僇辱之。
为革囊，盛血，昂而射之，命曰 射天 。
武乙猎於河渭之闲，暴雷，武乙震死。
子帝太丁立。
帝太丁崩，子帝乙立。帝乙立，殷益衰。
帝乙长子曰微子启，启母贱，不得嗣。
少子辛，辛母正后，辛为嗣。
帝乙崩，子辛立，是为帝辛，天下谓之纣。
translation: 
Wu Ding did not publish any political opinions for three years. Political matters were decided by Tsukasa, and he carefully observed the country's atmosphere.
Wu Ding dreamed of a saint named Shuo at night.
He observed the ministers and officials according to the appearance of the saint he saw in his dream, but none of them looked like the man in the dream.
So he sent hundreds of officials to search among the people, and finally found him in Fu Xian.
At that time, it was said that he was a slave working in Fuxian building roads.
The official brought the story to Wu Ding, and Wu Ding said it was this person.
After finding out the story, Wu Ding talked with him and found that he was really a sage, so he appointed him as the prime minister of the country, and the Yin country prospered in peace.
Therefore, the place name Fu Xian was used as the surname of Fu Shuo, and it became Fu Shuo.
Wu Ding offered sacrifices to the soup. The next day, a pheasant flew up and crowed on the ears of the tripod. Wu Ding was very frightened.
Zu Ji said: Your Majesty, don’t worry, let’s handle the political affairs first.
Zu Ji also taught Wu Ding: God examines the people of the world mainly to see whether they abide by morality. The life span given to humans by God may be long or short. It is not that God allows some people to die short-lived, but that they themselves end their lives midway.
Some people do not follow morals and do not obey judgments and punishments. God has decreed to correct their morals. Only then did he think of it and said: What should I do?
Alas, Your Majesty, you inherit the throne and treat the people respectfully. None of them are descendants of God. You must always offer sacrifices and do not worship those things that betray morality!
Wu Ding practiced virtuous government, and the people of the country were happy, and the Yin Dynasty prospered again.
Emperor Wu Ding passed away and his son Emperor Zu Geng came to the throne.
Zu Ji admired Wu Ding's virtuous administration because of the strange phenomenon of pheasants, built a temple for him, and called him Gaozong, so he wrote "Gaozong Xiri" and "Gaozong's Instructions".
Emperor Zu Geng passed away, and his younger brother Zu Jia came to the throne. This was Emperor Jia.
Emperor Jia became promiscuous and the Yin Dynasty declined again.
After the death of Emperor Jia, his son Lin Xin came to the throne.
Lin Xin died, and his younger brother Geng Ding came to the throne. This was Emperor Geng Ding.
After Geng Ding's death, his son Wu Yi came to the throne.
The capital of Yin State left Bo and moved to the north of the Yellow River.
Emperor Wu Yi was tyrannical and cruel. He made a puppet and called it a god.
He played chess with the puppet and let others make the moves for it.
If the god doesn't win, insult it.
He also made a leather pouch, filled it with blood, raised his head to the sky and shot arrows at it, calling it "shooting the sky".
Wu Yi went hunting between the Yellow River and the Wei River. There was a sudden thunder in the sky, and Wu Yi was killed.
His son Emperor Taiding ascended the throne.
After the death of Emperor Taiding, his son Yi came to the throne. When Emperor Yi came to the throne, the Yin Dynasty declined even more.
The eldest son of Emperor Yi was called Wei Ziqi. Qi's mother was of low status, so Qi was not qualified to inherit the throne.
Emperor Yi's youngest son was named Xin. Xin's mother was the queen, so Xin was appointed as his heir.
After the death of Emperor Yi, Xin succeeded to the throne. This was Emperor Xin, and the world called him Zhou.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
帝纣资辨捷疾，闻见甚敏；材力过人，手格猛兽；知足以距谏，言足以饰非；矜人臣以能，高天下以声，以为皆出己之下。
好酒淫乐，嬖於妇人。爱妲己，妲己之言是从。
於是使师涓作新淫声，北里之舞，靡靡之乐。
厚赋税以实鹿台之钱，而盈钜桥之粟。
益收狗马奇物，充仞宫室。益广沙丘苑台，多取野兽蜚鸟置其中。
慢於鬼神。大聚乐戏於沙丘，以酒为池，县肉为林，使男女裸相逐其间，为长夜之饮。
百姓怨望而诸侯有畔者，於是纣乃重刑辟，有炮烙之法。
以西伯昌、九侯、鄂侯为三公。
九侯有好女，入之纣。九侯女不喜淫，纣怒，杀之，而醢九侯。
鄂侯争之彊，辨之疾，并脯鄂侯。
西伯昌闻之，窃叹。
崇侯虎知之，以告纣，纣囚西伯羑里。
西伯之臣闳夭之徒，求美女奇物善马以献纣，纣乃赦西伯。
西伯出而献洛西之地，以请除炮烙之刑。
纣乃许之，赐弓矢斧钺，使得征伐，为西伯。
而用费中为政。
费中善谀，好利，殷人弗亲。
纣又用恶来。
恶来善毁谗，诸侯以此益疏。
西伯归，乃阴修德行善，诸侯多叛纣而往归西伯。
西伯滋大，纣由是稍失权重。
王子比干谏，弗听。
商容贤者，百姓爱之，纣废之。
translation: 
Zhou was talented, eloquent, quick in action, sharp in hearing and eyesight. He was also extremely strong and could fight wild beasts with his bare hands. His wisdom is enough to refuse the advice of his subordinates, and his language is enough to cover up his mistakes.
He used his talents to show off in front of his ministers, and relied on his prestige to promote himself everywhere, thinking that everyone in the world was inferior to him. He was fond of drinking, arrogant and licentious, and doted on women. He dotes on Daji especially and obeys everything Daji says.
So he asked the musicians to compose new debauched music, Beili dance music, and lascivious songs.
He increased taxes to fill Lutai's treasury and Juqiao's granary.
He collected dogs, horses and novelty toys to fill the palace. He also expanded the garden terrace of the sand dune, captured a large number of wild animals and birds, and placed them inside.
He was indifferent and rude to ghosts and gods, and invited a large number of performers to gather in the sand dunes. He used wine to make pool water, hung meat as a forest, made men and women naked, chased and played there, and drank and had fun all night long.
The people resented him, and some princes betrayed him. So he increased the punishment and invented a kind of torture called Pao Ge.
Zhou appointed Xibochang, Jiuhou and Ehou as the three Dukes.
Jiu Hou had a beautiful daughter who was dedicated to Zhou. She did not like to have sex and have fun. Zhou was furious and killed her. At the same time, Jiu Hou was also tortured and chopped into meat paste.
The Marquis of E resolutely tried to dissuade him, and the argument was fierce. As a result, the Marquis of E was also beheaded and made into dried meat.
When Xibochang heard about these things, he sighed secretly.
After Chonghou Hu knew about it, he reported it to King Zhou, who imprisoned Xibo in Youli.
Xibo's ministers, Hong Yao and others, brought beauties, treasures and fine horses to Zhou, and King Zhou pardoned Xibo.
After Xibo was released from prison, he offered the land west of Luoshui to Zhou Jin and asked him to abolish the torture of cannons.
Zhou agreed to him and gave him a bow, arrow and axe, so that he could conquer other princes. In this way, he became the leader of the princes in the western region, and he was known as Xibohou.
Zhou appointed Fei Zhong to manage state affairs.
Fei Zhong was good at flattery and greedy for wealth, so the people of Yin State were not close to King Zhou.
Zhou also allowed evil to come.
When evil comes, good will lead to slander and slander, so the princes became more and more alienated from King Zhou.
When Xibo returned to the capital, he secretly practiced virtuous governance and performed good deeds. Many people among the princes betrayed Zhou and came to join Xibo.
Xibo's power became stronger and stronger, and King Zhou gradually lost his power.
Prince Bigan came forward to persuade Zhou, but Zhou refused to listen.
Shang Rong was a talented and virtuous man, and the people respected and loved him very much, but Zhou deposed him.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
及西伯伐饥国，灭之，纣之臣祖伊闻之而咎周，恐，奔告纣曰： 天既讫我殷命，假人元龟，无敢知吉，非先王不相我後人，维王淫虐用自绝，故天弃我，不有安食，不虞知天性，不迪率典。今我民罔不欲丧，曰 天曷不降威，大命胡不至 ？
今王其柰何？
纣曰： 我生不有命在天乎！
祖伊反，曰： 纣不可谏矣。
西伯既卒，周武王之东伐，至盟津，诸侯叛殷会周者八百。
诸侯皆曰： 纣可伐矣。
武王曰： 尔未知天命。
乃复归。
纣愈淫乱不止。
微子数谏不听，乃与大师、少师谋，遂去。
比干曰： 为人臣者，不得不以死争。
乃彊谏纣。
纣怒曰： 吾闻圣人心有七窍。
剖比干，观其心。
箕子惧，乃详狂为奴，纣又囚之。
殷之大师、少师乃持其祭乐器奔周。
周武王於是遂率诸侯伐纣。
纣亦发兵距之牧野。
甲子日，纣兵败。纣走入，登鹿台，衣其宝玉衣，赴火而死。
周武王遂斩纣头，县之白旗。
杀妲己。释箕子之囚，封比干之墓，表商容之闾。
封纣子武庚、禄父，以续殷祀，令修行盘庚之政。殷民大说。
於是周武王为天子。
其後世贬帝号，号为王。
而封殷后为诸侯，属周。
周武王崩，武庚与管叔、蔡叔作乱，成王命周公诛之，而立微子於宋，以续殷后焉。
太史公曰：余以颂次契之事，自成汤以来，采於书诗。
translation: 
When Xibo attacked the hungry country and destroyed it, Zuyi, the minister of Zhou, heard about it and resented Zhou. He was very frightened and went to Zhou to report: God has cut off the longevity of our Yin country. People who know good and bad luck use big tortoises for divination, but there are no good omens. It’s not that the late king didn’t protect our descendants, but that you, the great king, were licentious and tyrannical and cut yourself off from heaven. Therefore, God abandoned us, so that we can’t live in peace of mind. If we don’t understand God’s will, we can’t follow the ordinary laws. As a result, the people of our country all hope that the Yin Kingdom will perish. They say: Why doesn’t God show its majesty? Why haven’t God’s orders come yet?
Your Majesty, what do you want to do now?
Zhou said: Wasn't it that I was blessed by heaven when I was born?
After Zuyi returned home, he said: Zhou can no longer be persuaded!
After the death of Xibochang, King Wu of Zhou led his army to the east. When they arrived at Mengjin, the princes betrayed Yin and Zhou and came to join King Wu from eight hundred countries.
The princes all said: It's time to attack Zhou!
King Wu of Zhou said: You don’t know the destiny of heaven.
So the class teacher returned to China.
Zhou became even more promiscuous and had no end.
Wei Zi repeatedly advised Zhou, but Zhou refused to listen. Wei Zi discussed with the Grand Master and the Young Master and left Yin.
Bigan said: As a minister, I have to risk my life to advise.
So he tried his best to persuade Zhou.
Zhou was furious and said: I heard that the saint's heart has seven holes.
So he cut open Bigan's chest and took out his heart to see.
Jizi was frightened when he saw it, so he pretended to be crazy and became a slave. Zhou imprisoned Jizi again.
The grand masters and young masters of Yin State took the sacrificial vessels and musical instruments and fled to Zhou State in a hurry.
King Wu of Zhou led the princes to attack Yin Zhou.
Zhou also sent troops to resist the Zhou army in Muye.
On the day of Jiazi, Zhou's army was defeated. Zhou fled into the city, climbed to the deer platform, put on his precious jade clothes, ran to the fire and burned himself to death.
King Wu of Zhou cut off Zhou's head and hung it on a white flagpole.
King Zhou Wu executed Daji again, released the imprisoned Jizi, repaired Bigan's tomb, and commended Shang Rong's alleys.
He also enfeoffed Zhou's son Wu Geng and his father, allowing him to continue to worship Yin's ancestors and order him to implement Pan Geng's virtuous government. The people of Yin were very happy.
So King Wu of Zhou became the emperor.
Because descendants of the Yin and Shang dynasties devalued the title of emperor, he was called king.
King Wu of Zhou made the descendants of Yin princes and subordinated them to Zhou.
After the death of King Wu of Zhou, Wu Geng, Uncle Guan, and Uncle Cai launched a rebellion. King Cheng of Zhou ordered Zhou Gongdan to kill them, and made Wei Zi the king of the Song Dynasty to continue the incense of the Yin Dynasty.
Tai Shigong said: I compiled the deeds of the Deed based on "Song of Shang". Since the Tang Dynasty, many historical facts have been collected from "Shang Shu" and "The Book of Songs".


Chunk 7: 
original: 
契为子姓，其後分封，以国为姓，有殷氏、来氏、宋氏、空桐氏、稚氏、北殷氏、目夷氏。
孔子曰，殷路车为善，而色尚白。
translation: 
Qi was the surname of Zi, and his descendants were enfeoffed and took the name of the country as their surnames, including the Yin family, the Lai family, the Song family, the Kongtong family, the Zhi family, the Bei Yin family, and the Mu Yi family.
Confucius once said that the people of the Yin Dynasty had the best cars, and white was valued in that era.


