Summary uses chunk [0, 1, 3, 7]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
崔骃子瑗孙寔崔骃字亭伯，涿郡安平人也。
高祖父朝，昭帝时为幽州从事，谏剌史无与燕刺王通。
及剌王败，擢为侍御史。
生子舒，历四郡太守，所在有能名。
舒小子篆，王莽时为郡文学，以明经征诣公车。
太保甄丰举为步兵校尉，篆辞曰： 吾闻伐国不问仁人，战陈不访儒士。
此举奚为至哉？
遂投劾归。
莽嫌诸不附己者，多以法中伤之。
时，篆兄发以佞巧幸于莽，位至大司空。
母师氏能通经学、百家之言，莽宠以殊礼，赐号义成夫人，金印紫绶，文轩丹毂，显于新世。
后以篆为建新大尹，篆不得已，及叹曰： 吾生无妄之世，值浇、羿之君，上有老母，下有兄弟，安得独洁己而危所生哉！
乃遂单车到官，称疾不视事，三年不行县。
门下掾倪敞谏，篆乃强起班春。
所至之县，狱犴填满。
篆垂涕曰： 嗟乎！
刑罚不中，乃陷人于阱。
此皆何罪，而至于是！
遂平理，所出二千余人。
掾吏叩头谏曰： 朝廷初政，州牧峻刻。
宥过申枉，诚仁者之心；然独为君子，将有悔乎！
篆曰： 邾文公不以一人易其身，君子谓之知命。
如杀一大尹赎二千人，盖所愿也。
遂称疾去。
建武初，朝廷多荐言之者，幽州刺史又举篆贤良。
贵启体之归全兮，庶不忝乎先子。篆生毅，以疾隐身不仕。
translation: 
◆Cui Xiang's biography, Cui Xiang's courtesy name was Tingbo, and he was a native of Anping, Zhuo County.
My great-great-grandfather, Cui Chao, worked for Youzhou during the reign of Emperor Zhao, and he advised the governor not to associate with King Yan Ci.
Later, he failed to assassinate the king and was promoted to Shi Yushi.
He gave birth to a son named Cui Shu, who successively served as the governor of four counties. He was known as capable wherever he went.
Cui Shu's youngest son was named Cui Xiang. When Wang Mang was a county scholar, he was summoned to the bus by Ming Jing.
Zhen Feng, the Taibao, appointed him as an infantry captain. Cui Xiang said: I heard that when conquering a country, one does not ask for benevolent people, and when fighting, one does not visit Confucian scholars.
How can I find this move?
So he confessed his fault and went home.
Wang Mang hated those who did not agree with him and often used methods to slander them.
At that time, Cui Fa, Cui Peng's brother, was favored by Wang Mang because of his cleverness, and his official position reached the rank of Da Sikong.
The mother was a master of Confucian classics and the language of hundreds of schools of thought. Wang Mang favored her with special gifts and gave her the title of Mrs. Yicheng, with a gold seal and purple ribbon, and a Wenxuan Danbo, which became apparent in the new Mang generation.
Later, Cui Xiang was appointed as the Grand Yin of Jianxin. Cui Xiang had no choice but to sigh and said: I was born in the age of Wuwang, and met such kings as Chu and Yi. I have an old mother above me and brothers below me. How can I put my body in danger by myself?
He went to the government office on his bicycle, claiming that he was ill and had nothing to do. He did not go to the county for three years to encourage farmers to grow mulberry trees.
Ni Chang, an official under his command, persuaded him, and Cui Cheng reluctantly stood up and issued the Spring Order.
In the counties I visited, the prisons, large and small, were full of people.
Cui Xiang cried and said: Oh!
If the punishment fails, the person is trapped in a trap.
What crime do these people have to be locked up here!
After a fair trial, more than 2,000 people were released.
The official kowtowed and advised: In the early days of the imperial government, the state pastoralists were in serious trouble.
Forgiving the criminal is indeed the heart of a benevolent person; however, if you are the only one who does this, will you regret it?
Cui Heng said: Duke Wen of Zhu would not change his life just because of one person, and a gentleman would say that he knew his fate.
For example, killing a large Yin to redeem two thousand people is what I want.
So he was sick and left.
In the early years of Jianwu, the imperial court recommended many people, and the governor of Youzhou also recommended Cui Heng as a virtuous person.
Cui Xiang felt ashamed that his clan was favored by Wang Mang, so he resigned and refused to serve as an official. Living in Xingyang, he reflected behind closed doors and wrote sixty-four chapters of "Book of Changes", which were used to judge good and bad fortunes, and many of them were used for predictions. Before his death, he wrote a poem to express his condolences, called "Comfort". Cui Heng gave birth to Cui Yi, who became invisible due to illness.
summary:
Cui Xiang, courtesy name Tingbo, was from Anping, Zhuo County. His great-great-grandfather Cui Chao served Youzhou under Emperor Zhao, advising the governor against associating with King Yan Ci. After failing to assassinate the king, he was promoted to Shi Yushi. His son Cui Shu governed four counties capably. Cui Xiang, Cui Shu's youngest son, was summoned by Ming Jing during Wang Mang's era. When Taibao Zhen Feng appointed him infantry captain, Cui Xiang refused, stating that conquering a country does not require benevolent people or Confucian scholars, and resigned. Wang Mang, who hated dissent, favored Cui Xiang's brother Cui Fa, making him Da Sikong. Cui Xiang's mother was a Confucian scholar honored as Mrs. Yicheng. Later, Cui Xiang was forced to become Grand Yin of Jianxin. He reluctantly served, claiming illness and neglecting duties for three years. After releasing over 2,000 prisoners through fair trials, he resigned, saying he would rather die than harm innocents. In the early Jianwu years, he refused a recommendation due to shame over his clan's ties to Wang Mang, living in Xingyang and writing sixty-four chapters of the "Book of Changes" before his death.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
毅生骃，年十三能通《诗》、《易》、《春秋》，博学有伟才，尽通古今训诂百家之言，善属文。
少游太学，与班固、傅毅同时齐名。
常以典籍为业，未遑仕进之事。
仆诚不能编德于数者，窃慕古人之所序。 元和中，肃宗始修古礼，巡狩方岳。
骃上《四巡颂》以称汉德，辞甚典美，文多，故不载。
帝雅好文章，自见骃颂后，常嗟叹之，谓侍中窦宪曰： 卿宁知崔骃乎？
对曰： 班固数为臣说之，然未见也。
帝曰： 公爱班固而忽崔骃，此叶公之好龙也。
试请见之。
骃由此候宪。
宪屣履迎门，笑谓骃曰： 亭伯，吾受诏交公，公何得薄哉？
遂揖入为上客。
居无几何，帝幸宪第，时骃适在宪所，帝闻而欲召见之。
宪谏，以为不宜与白衣会。
帝悟曰： 吾能令骃朝夕在傍，何必于此！
适欲官之，会帝崩。
窦太后临朝，宪以重戚出内诏命。
骃献书诫之曰：骃闻交浅而言深者，愚也；在贱而望贵者，惑也；未信而纳忠者，谤也。
三者皆所不宜，而或蹈之者，思效其区区，愤盈而不能已也。
窃见足下体淳淑之姿，躬高明之量，意美志厉，有上贤之风。
骃幸得充下馆，序后陈，是以竭其拳拳，敢进一言。
传曰： 生而富者骄，生而贵者傲。
生富贵而能不骄傲者，未之有也。
今宠禄初隆，百僚观行，当尧、舜之盛世，处光华之显时，岂可不庶几夙夜，以永众誉，弘申伯之美，致周、邵之事乎？
语曰： 不患无位，患所以立。
昔冯野王以外戚居位，称为贤臣；近阴卫尉克已复礼，终受多福。
translation: 
Cui Yi gave birth to Cui Xiang. At the age of thirteen, he was proficient in the Book of Songs, the Book of Changes, and the Spring and Autumn Annals. He was erudite and talented. He understood the exegesis of hundreds of schools of thought, both ancient and modern, and could write articles.
When he was young, he traveled to Taixue and became as famous as Ban Gu and Fu Yi.
He often makes his career by studying classics, not to mention being an official.
At that time, some people ridiculed him for being too mysterious and quiet, and he would lose his reputation in the future. Cui Xiang imitated Yang Xiong's "Jie Mo" and wrote "Da Zhi" to reply to them. During the Yuanhe period, Emperor Suzong practiced ancient rituals and visited Fang Yue.
Cui Xiang wrote "Ode to the Four Patrols" to praise the Han Dynasty. The diction is very elegant, but there are too many words so I won't record it here.
The emperor is always good at writing, and after reading Cui Xiang's ode, he often sighed. Said to the attendant Dou Xian: Do you know Cui Xiang?
Answer: Ban Gu told me about him many times, but I didn’t see him.
The emperor said: "You like Ban Gu but ignore Cui Xiang. This is because Ye Gong is a good dragon."
Please see him.
Cui Xiang greeted Dou Xian.
Dou Xian hurriedly put on his shoes and greeted Ma Yin at the door. He smiled and said to Ma Yin: "Ting Bo, I made friends with you on the emperor's order. You won't treat me poorly, right?"
So I bowed down and became a guest.
Not long after staying, the emperor came to Dou Xian's house. Cui Xiang was at Xian's house at that time. The emperor heard about it and wanted to summon him.
Dou Xian dissuaded him, thinking that he should not meet the man in white.
The emperor understood and said: I can make Cui Xiang be by my side day and night, why bother here!
Just as he was about to ask him to be an official, the emperor passed away.
When Empress Dowager Dou came to court, Dou Xian used his relatives as cashiers to receive orders.
Cui Xian wrote a letter warning: "Ma Yin heard that friendship is shallow and words are deep, it is stupid, it is foolish to expect a noble person from a low position, it is slander to accept good advice without believing it."
None of the three items are suitable, but if you want to give it a try, you just want to imitate me, and you are angry and can't stop yourself.
I have seen privately that he has a pure and graceful posture, a masterful attitude, a beautiful mind and a powerful spirit, and has the demeanor of a virtuous person.
Ma was lucky enough to be admitted to the pavilion and ranked in the back row, so he tried his best to dare to say a word.
The ancients said: Those who are born rich are proud, and those who are born noble are proud.
There is no one who can be born into wealth and not be proud.
Now that the favor is rising and the officials are watching, when Yao and Shun were in their heyday and at the peak of their splendor, how could they not be concubine for a few days so as to make people's reputation last longer, promote the reputation of Shen Bo, and achieve the achievements of Zhou Gong and Zhao Gong?
An old saying goes: If you don't have trouble, you won't be in position; if you have trouble, you will be established.
In the past, the relatives of King Feng Ye held high positions and were called virtuous ministers; recently, the Yin Weiwei restrained himself and returned to ritual, and finally gained great blessings.
summary:
Cui Xiang's son Cui Yi was reclusive due to illness. Cui Yi's son Cui Xiang (the younger) was proficient in classics at thirteen, studied at Taixue, and was famed alongside Ban Gu and Fu Yi. He wrote "Da Zhi" to defend his reclusive nature. During the Yuanhe period, he praised Emperor Suzong with "Ode to the Four Patrols." The emperor admired his work and urged Dou Xian to meet him. Cui Xiang became Dou Xian's guest, but after the emperor's death, he warned Dou Xian against arrogance, citing historical examples. When Dou Xian became general, he appointed Cui Xiang as a courier. Cui Xiang repeatedly admonished Dou Xian for his excesses, leading to alienation. He was made magistrate of Changling but refused and died at home in 92 AD, leaving numerous writings.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
狱掾善为《礼》，瑗间考讯时，辄问以《礼》说。
其专心好学，虽颠沛必于是。
后事释归家，为度辽将军邓遵所辟。
居无何，遵被诛，瑗免归。
瑚复辟车骑将军阎显府。
时阎太后称制，显入参政事。
先是，安帝废太子为济阴王，而以北乡侯为嗣。
瑗以侯立不以正，知显将败，欲说蓬废立，而显日沉醉，不能得见。
乃谓长史陈禅曰： 中常侍江京、陈达等，得以嬖宠惑蛊先帝，遂使废黜正统，扶立疏孽。
少帝即位，发病庙中，周勃之征，于斯复见。
今欲与长史君共求见，说将军白太后，收京等，废少帝，引立济阴王，必上当天心，下合人望。
伊、霍之功，不下席而立炁则将军兄弟传祚于无穷。
若拒违天意，久旷神器，则将以无罪并辜元恶。
此所谓祸福之会，分功之时。
禅犹豫未敢从。
会北乡侯薨，孙程立济阴王，是为顺帝。
阎显兄弟悉伏诛，瑗坐被斥。
门生苏祇具知瑗谋，欲上书言状，瑗闻而遽止之。
时陈禅为司隶校尉，召瑗谓曰： 第听祇上书，禅请为之证。
瑗曰： 此譬犹兒妾屏语耳，愿使君勿复出口。
遂辞归，不复应州郡命。
久之，大将军梁商初开莫府，复首辟瑗。
自以再为贵戚吏，不遇被斥，遂以戚固辞。
岁中举茂才，迁汲令。
在事数言便宜，为人开稻田数百顷。
视事七年，百姓歌之。
汉安初，大司农胡广、少府窦章共荐瑗宿德大儒，从政有迹，不宜久在下位，由此迁济北相。
时，李固为太山太守，美瑗文雅，奉书礼致殷勤。
岁余，光禄大夫杜乔为八使，徇行郡国，以臧罪奏瑗，征诣廷尉。
瑗上书自讼，得理出。
会病卒，年六十六。
临终，顾命子寔曰： 夫人禀天地之气以生，及其终也，归精于天，还骨于地。
translation: 
During the prison meeting, Cui Yuan often read "Book of Rites" after conducting examinations.
He was attentive and eager to learn, even in bad times.
Later, when the matter was clarified, he was released home and was summoned by Deng Zun, the general of Liao Dynasty.
Soon, Deng Zun was killed and Cui Yuan was dismissed from his post and returned.
Later he was summoned to the palace of Yan Xian, the general of chariots and cavalry.
At that time, the Queen Mother Yan took the title of regent and acted on behalf of the emperor. Yan Xian entered the court to participate in political affairs.
First, Emperor An deposed the prince as King of Jiyin and made Beixiang Marquis his heir.
Cui Yuan believed that setting up a marquis was not correct. Knowing that Yan Xian would fail, he wanted to abolish the order, but Yan Xian was too drunk to see him.
So he told Chen Chan, the chief minister: "Zhongchang served Jiang Jing, Chen Da, etc., and bewitched the late emperor because of his favor, so he deposed the orthodox ones and supported the evil ones."
When the young emperor ascended the throne, he became ill in the temple, and Zhou Bo's autocratic power reappeared here.
Now I would like to seek an audience with Chang Shijun, and persuade the general to ask the Queen Mother to arrest Jiang Jing and others, depose the young emperor, and install King Jiyin. This will surely harmonize the hearts of heaven and the hopes of people.
Yi and Huo's meritorious deeds did not leave the table, and the generals and brothers would pass on their achievements to infinity.
If you refuse to disobey God's will and remain empty of the throne for a long time, your innocence will turn into a great evil.
This is the opportunity for misfortune and fortune, the time for division of merit.
Chen Chan hesitated and did not dare to obey.
When the Marquis of Beixiang died, Sun Cheng established himself as King Jiyin. This was Emperor Shun.
The Yan Xian brothers were all killed, and Cui Yuan was also ostracized.
Disciple Su Yuanshi knew all about Cui Yuan's intentions and wanted to write a letter to explain the situation clearly, but Cui Yuan stopped him immediately after hearing it.
At that time, Chen Chan became the captain of the Sili school and summoned Cui Yuan. He said to Yuan: "But after listening to Su Yu's letter, please let me bear witness for you."
Cui Yuan said: This is just like a son and a young wife talking privately. I hope you won't say it out loud.
So he resigned and returned home, no longer answering the orders of the state and county.
After a long time, General Liang Shangchu opened his mansion and summoned Cui Yuan.
Officials who thought they were noble relatives might be reprimanded again, so they resigned because of their illness.
In the middle of the year, he was promoted to Maocai and appointed county magistrate.
While in office, he talked about current affairs several times and cultivated hundreds of hectares of rice fields for the people.
After seven years in office, the people sang his praises.
In the early years of Han'an, Hu Guang, the chief minister, and Dou Zhang, the chief minister, jointly recommended Cui Yuan as a great scholar of virtue. He had made great achievements in politics and should not be in the lower position for a long time, so he was promoted to the prime minister of Jibei.
At this time, Li Gu was the governor of Taishan. He praised Cui Yuan for his elegance and presented him with a letter to express his hospitality.
For more than a year, Guanglu doctor Du Qiao served as eight envoys and traveled around the country. Cui Yuan was accused of embezzlement and summoned to Tingwei.
Cui Yuan filed a petition to sue himself and found out the facts of the case and released him.
Soon he died of illness at the age of sixty-six.
When he was dying, Cui Chen, Gu Ming's son, said: People live by the energy of heaven and earth. When they die, their essence returns to heaven and their bones return to earth.
summary:
Cui Yuan, courtesy name Ziyu, lost his father early and studied under Jia Kui, mastering classics and astrology. He avenged his brother's murder by fleeing, later returning after an amnesty. Poor, he lived with brothers for decades. At forty, he became a county official but was imprisoned. During imprisonment, he studied the "Book of Rites." After release, he served under generals Deng Zun and Yan Xian. When Empress Dowager Yan regented, Cui Yuan advised Yan Xian to depose the young emperor and install King Jiyin, but Yan refused. After Emperor Shun's rise, Yan Xian was killed, and Cui Yuan was ostracized. He later served as county magistrate, cultivating rice fields for seven years. Recommended as a virtuous scholar, he became prime minister of Jibei. Accused of embezzlement, he defended himself and was released. He died at sixty-six, requesting a simple burial in Luoyang. He wrote fifty-seven works, including "Nanyang Literary Official Chronicle," and was known for his hospitality despite poverty.

Chunk 7: 
original: 
大司农羊傅、少府何豹上书荐寔才美能高，宜在朝廷。
召拜议郎，迁大将军冀司马，与边韶、延笃等著作东观。
出为五原太守。
五原土宜麻枲，而俗不知织绩，民冬月无衣，积细草而卧其中，见吏则衣草而出。
寔至官，斥卖储峙，为作纺绩、织纴，綀缊之具以教之，民得以免寒苦。
是时胡虏连入云中、朔方，杀略吏民，一岁至九奔命。
寔整厉士马，严烽候，虏不敢犯，常为边最。
以病征，拜议郎，复与诸儒博士共杂定《五经》。
会梁冀诛，寔以故吏免官，禁锢数年。
时，鲜卑数犯边，诏三公举威武谋略之士，司空黄琼荐寔，拜辽东太守。
行道，母刘氏病卒，上疏求归葬行丧。
母有母仪淑德，博览书传。
初，寔在五原，常训以临民之政，寔之善绩，母有其助焉。
服竟，召拜尚书。
寔以世方阻乱，称疾不视事，数月免归。
初，寔父卒，剽卖田宅，起冢茔，立碑颂。
葬讫，资产竭尽，因穷困，以酤酿贩鬻为业。
时人多以此讥之，寔终不改。
亦取足而已，不致盈余。
及仕官，历位边郡，而愈贫薄。
建宁中病卒。
家徒四壁立，无以殡敛，光禄勋杨赐、太仆袁逢、少府段颎为备棺葬具，大鸿胪袁隗树碑颂德。
所著碑、论、箴、铭、答、七言、祠、文、表、记、书凡十五篇。
translation: 
Taisi Nongyang Fu and Shaofu He Bao wrote to recommend Cui Chen, saying that Cui Chen was very talented and capable and should be an official in the court.
So the emperor made Cui Yilang, promoted General Liang Ji to Sima, and wrote books and theories in Dongguan with Bian Shao, Yandu and others.
Later, Cui Chen became the governor of Wuyuan.
The soil in Wuyuan is suitable for growing hemp, but the local people do not know how to weave cloth. The people have no clothes to wear in winter, so they pile some fine grass to sleep in the grass, and when they see the officials, they come out covered with grass.
After Cui Chen took office, he asked the people to sell their stored grains, buy textiles, weave 纟第, 緺箷 and other tools for them and teach them how to use them, so that the people could avoid the suffering of cold and exhaustion.
At this time, the Xiongnu invaded Yunzhong and Shuofang successively, killing and plundering officials and people, and fled for their lives nine times in a year.
Cui Chen strengthened his troops and ordered beacon towers to conduct reconnaissance. The enemy did not dare to invade, making it the quietest place on the frontier.
When Cui Chen was ill, he was worshiped as Yilang, and he reviewed the Five Classics with famous Confucian doctors at the time.
It happened that Liang Ji was killed. Cui Chen was an old official of Liang Ji. He was implicated, dismissed from his official position, and was imprisoned for several years.
At that time, Xianbei invaded the border many times, and the emperor issued an edict to recommend powerful strategists to the three princes. Sikong Huang Qiong recommended Cui Chen, who was worshiped as the governor of Liaodong.
Halfway through the journey, his mother Liu died of illness. Cui Chen asked Shangshu to go home to attend to the funeral.
My mother, Mrs. Liu, was of very good character during her lifetime and read a lot of books.
At first, Cui Chen served as the prefect of Wuyuan, and his mother often taught him how to manage political affairs. Cui Chen's good achievements were very helpful to his mother.
After the mourning was over, the emperor made him minister again.
Cui Chen was dismissed from his post and returned home after a few months on the grounds that the current situation was in chaos and he was ill and could not work.
When Cui Chen's father died, Cui Chen sold his property, made a tomb, and erected a tombstone.
After the burial, all the family property was sold. Because of poverty, he made a living by selling wine and porridge.
At that time, many people ridiculed him for this, but he never changed.
When he does business, he just wants to make enough money, and he doesn't want to make more money.
Later, when they became officials, they were mostly in border areas, so they were even poorer.
He died during the Jianning period.
The family was very poor and had no money to bury him, so Guang Luxun Yang Ci, Imperial servant Yuan Feng, Shaofu Duan Yu and others prepared coffins and burial materials for him. Dahong Yuan Wei built a monument for him to praise his merits.
He wrote a total of fifteen inscriptions, essays, proverbs, inscriptions, answers, seven words, temples, essays, tables, notes and books.
summary:
Cui Chen, courtesy name Zizhen, was quiet and studious. After his father's death, he mourned at the tomb. Refusing official invitations, he wrote "Political Commentary" criticizing contemporary governance. He argued for adapting policies to circumstances, citing historical examples like Emperor Xuan's strict laws versus Emperor Yuan's laxity. He advocated severe punishment for troubled times, comparing it to medicine. He served as governor of Wuyuan, teaching weaving to locals and strengthening defenses against Xiongnu. Later, as Yilang, he reviewed classics but was imprisoned for ties to Liang Ji. After release, he became governor of Liaodong but resigned due to his mother's death. He died during the Jianning period, impoverished, with his burial funded by officials. He wrote fifteen works.

