Chunk 0: 
original: 
崔骃子瑗孙寔崔骃字亭伯，涿郡安平人也。
高祖父朝，昭帝时为幽州从事，谏剌史无与燕刺王通。
及剌王败，擢为侍御史。
生子舒，历四郡太守，所在有能名。
舒小子篆，王莽时为郡文学，以明经征诣公车。
太保甄丰举为步兵校尉，篆辞曰： 吾闻伐国不问仁人，战陈不访儒士。
此举奚为至哉？
遂投劾归。
莽嫌诸不附己者，多以法中伤之。
时，篆兄发以佞巧幸于莽，位至大司空。
母师氏能通经学、百家之言，莽宠以殊礼，赐号义成夫人，金印紫绶，文轩丹毂，显于新世。
后以篆为建新大尹，篆不得已，及叹曰： 吾生无妄之世，值浇、羿之君，上有老母，下有兄弟，安得独洁己而危所生哉！
乃遂单车到官，称疾不视事，三年不行县。
门下掾倪敞谏，篆乃强起班春。
所至之县，狱犴填满。
篆垂涕曰： 嗟乎！
刑罚不中，乃陷人于阱。
此皆何罪，而至于是！
遂平理，所出二千余人。
掾吏叩头谏曰： 朝廷初政，州牧峻刻。
宥过申枉，诚仁者之心；然独为君子，将有悔乎！
篆曰： 邾文公不以一人易其身，君子谓之知命。
如杀一大尹赎二千人，盖所愿也。
遂称疾去。
建武初，朝廷多荐言之者，幽州刺史又举篆贤良。
贵启体之归全兮，庶不忝乎先子。篆生毅，以疾隐身不仕。
translation: 
◆Cui Xiang's biography, Cui Xiang's courtesy name was Tingbo, and he was a native of Anping, Zhuo County.
My great-great-grandfather, Cui Chao, worked for Youzhou during the reign of Emperor Zhao, and he advised the governor not to associate with King Yan Ci.
Later, he failed to assassinate the king and was promoted to Shi Yushi.
He gave birth to a son named Cui Shu, who successively served as the governor of four counties. He was known as capable wherever he went.
Cui Shu's youngest son was named Cui Xiang. When Wang Mang was a county scholar, he was summoned to the bus by Ming Jing.
Zhen Feng, the Taibao, appointed him as an infantry captain. Cui Xiang said: I heard that when conquering a country, one does not ask for benevolent people, and when fighting, one does not visit Confucian scholars.
How can I find this move?
So he confessed his fault and went home.
Wang Mang hated those who did not agree with him and often used methods to slander them.
At that time, Cui Fa, Cui Peng's brother, was favored by Wang Mang because of his cleverness, and his official position reached the rank of Da Sikong.
The mother was a master of Confucian classics and the language of hundreds of schools of thought. Wang Mang favored her with special gifts and gave her the title of Mrs. Yicheng, with a gold seal and purple ribbon, and a Wenxuan Danbo, which became apparent in the new Mang generation.
Later, Cui Xiang was appointed as the Grand Yin of Jianxin. Cui Xiang had no choice but to sigh and said: I was born in the age of Wuwang, and met such kings as Chu and Yi. I have an old mother above me and brothers below me. How can I put my body in danger by myself?
He went to the government office on his bicycle, claiming that he was ill and had nothing to do. He did not go to the county for three years to encourage farmers to grow mulberry trees.
Ni Chang, an official under his command, persuaded him, and Cui Cheng reluctantly stood up and issued the Spring Order.
In the counties I visited, the prisons, large and small, were full of people.
Cui Xiang cried and said: Oh!
If the punishment fails, the person is trapped in a trap.
What crime do these people have to be locked up here!
After a fair trial, more than 2,000 people were released.
The official kowtowed and advised: In the early days of the imperial government, the state pastoralists were in serious trouble.
Forgiving the criminal is indeed the heart of a benevolent person; however, if you are the only one who does this, will you regret it?
Cui Heng said: Duke Wen of Zhu would not change his life just because of one person, and a gentleman would say that he knew his fate.
For example, killing a large Yin to redeem two thousand people is what I want.
So he was sick and left.
In the early years of Jianwu, the imperial court recommended many people, and the governor of Youzhou also recommended Cui Heng as a virtuous person.
Cui Xiang felt ashamed that his clan was favored by Wang Mang, so he resigned and refused to serve as an official. Living in Xingyang, he reflected behind closed doors and wrote sixty-four chapters of "Book of Changes", which were used to judge good and bad fortunes, and many of them were used for predictions. Before his death, he wrote a poem to express his condolences, called "Comfort". Cui Heng gave birth to Cui Yi, who became invisible due to illness.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
毅生骃，年十三能通《诗》、《易》、《春秋》，博学有伟才，尽通古今训诂百家之言，善属文。
少游太学，与班固、傅毅同时齐名。
常以典籍为业，未遑仕进之事。
仆诚不能编德于数者，窃慕古人之所序。 元和中，肃宗始修古礼，巡狩方岳。
骃上《四巡颂》以称汉德，辞甚典美，文多，故不载。
帝雅好文章，自见骃颂后，常嗟叹之，谓侍中窦宪曰： 卿宁知崔骃乎？
对曰： 班固数为臣说之，然未见也。
帝曰： 公爱班固而忽崔骃，此叶公之好龙也。
试请见之。
骃由此候宪。
宪屣履迎门，笑谓骃曰： 亭伯，吾受诏交公，公何得薄哉？
遂揖入为上客。
居无几何，帝幸宪第，时骃适在宪所，帝闻而欲召见之。
宪谏，以为不宜与白衣会。
帝悟曰： 吾能令骃朝夕在傍，何必于此！
适欲官之，会帝崩。
窦太后临朝，宪以重戚出内诏命。
骃献书诫之曰：骃闻交浅而言深者，愚也；在贱而望贵者，惑也；未信而纳忠者，谤也。
三者皆所不宜，而或蹈之者，思效其区区，愤盈而不能已也。
窃见足下体淳淑之姿，躬高明之量，意美志厉，有上贤之风。
骃幸得充下馆，序后陈，是以竭其拳拳，敢进一言。
传曰： 生而富者骄，生而贵者傲。
生富贵而能不骄傲者，未之有也。
今宠禄初隆，百僚观行，当尧、舜之盛世，处光华之显时，岂可不庶几夙夜，以永众誉，弘申伯之美，致周、邵之事乎？
语曰： 不患无位，患所以立。
昔冯野王以外戚居位，称为贤臣；近阴卫尉克已复礼，终受多福。
translation: 
Cui Yi gave birth to Cui Xiang. At the age of thirteen, he was proficient in the Book of Songs, the Book of Changes, and the Spring and Autumn Annals. He was erudite and talented. He understood the exegesis of hundreds of schools of thought, both ancient and modern, and could write articles.
When he was young, he traveled to Taixue and became as famous as Ban Gu and Fu Yi.
He often makes his career by studying classics, not to mention being an official.
At that time, some people ridiculed him for being too mysterious and quiet, and he would lose his reputation in the future. Cui Xiang imitated Yang Xiong's "Jie Mo" and wrote "Da Zhi" to reply to them. During the Yuanhe period, Emperor Suzong practiced ancient rituals and visited Fang Yue.
Cui Xiang wrote "Ode to the Four Patrols" to praise the Han Dynasty. The diction is very elegant, but there are too many words so I won't record it here.
The emperor is always good at writing, and after reading Cui Xiang's ode, he often sighed. Said to the attendant Dou Xian: Do you know Cui Xiang?
Answer: Ban Gu told me about him many times, but I didn’t see him.
The emperor said: "You like Ban Gu but ignore Cui Xiang. This is because Ye Gong is a good dragon."
Please see him.
Cui Xiang greeted Dou Xian.
Dou Xian hurriedly put on his shoes and greeted Ma Yin at the door. He smiled and said to Ma Yin: "Ting Bo, I made friends with you on the emperor's order. You won't treat me poorly, right?"
So I bowed down and became a guest.
Not long after staying, the emperor came to Dou Xian's house. Cui Xiang was at Xian's house at that time. The emperor heard about it and wanted to summon him.
Dou Xian dissuaded him, thinking that he should not meet the man in white.
The emperor understood and said: I can make Cui Xiang be by my side day and night, why bother here!
Just as he was about to ask him to be an official, the emperor passed away.
When Empress Dowager Dou came to court, Dou Xian used his relatives as cashiers to receive orders.
Cui Xian wrote a letter warning: "Ma Yin heard that friendship is shallow and words are deep, it is stupid, it is foolish to expect a noble person from a low position, it is slander to accept good advice without believing it."
None of the three items are suitable, but if you want to give it a try, you just want to imitate me, and you are angry and can't stop yourself.
I have seen privately that he has a pure and graceful posture, a masterful attitude, a beautiful mind and a powerful spirit, and has the demeanor of a virtuous person.
Ma was lucky enough to be admitted to the pavilion and ranked in the back row, so he tried his best to dare to say a word.
The ancients said: Those who are born rich are proud, and those who are born noble are proud.
There is no one who can be born into wealth and not be proud.
Now that the favor is rising and the officials are watching, when Yao and Shun were in their heyday and at the peak of their splendor, how could they not be concubine for a few days so as to make people's reputation last longer, promote the reputation of Shen Bo, and achieve the achievements of Zhou Gong and Zhao Gong?
An old saying goes: If you don't have trouble, you won't be in position; if you have trouble, you will be established.
In the past, the relatives of King Feng Ye held high positions and were called virtuous ministers; recently, the Yin Weiwei restrained himself and returned to ritual, and finally gained great blessings.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
郯氏之宗，非不尊也；阳平之族，非不盛也。
重侯累将，建天枢，执斗柄。其所以获讥于时，垂愆于后者，何也？
盖在满而不挹，位有余而仁不足也。
汉兴以后，迄于哀、平，外家二十，保族全身，四人而己。
《书》曰： 鉴于有殷。
可不慎哉！窦氏之兴，肇自孝文。
二君以淳淑守道，成名先日；安丰以佐命著德，显自中兴。
内以忠诚自固，外以法度自守，卒享祚国，垂祉于今。
夫谦德之光，《周易》所美；满溢之位，道家所戒。
故君子福大而愈惧，爵隆而益恭。
远察近览，俯仰有则，铭诸几杖，刻诸盘杅。
矜矜业业，无殆无荒。
如此，则百福是荷，庆流无穷矣。
及宪为车骑将军，辟骃为掾。
宪府贵重，掾属三十人，皆故刺史、二千石，唯骃以处士年少，擢在其间。
宪擅权骄恣，骃数谏之，及出击匈奴，道路愈多不法，骃为主簿，前后奏记数十，指切长短。
宪不能容，稍疏之，因察骃高第，出为长岑长。
骃自以远去，不得意，遂不之官而归。
永元四年，卒于家。
所著诗、赋、铭、颂、书、记、表、《七依》、《婚礼结言》、《达旨》、《酒警》合二十一篇。
中子瑗。
瑗字子玉，早孤，锐志好学，尽能传其父业。
年十八，至京师，从侍中贾逵质正大义，逵善待之，瑗因留游学，遂明天官、历数、《京房易传》、六日七分。
诸儒宗之。
与扶风马融、南阳张衡特相友好。
初，瑗兄章为州人所杀，瑗手刃报仇，因亡命。
会赦，归家。
家贫，兄弟同居数十年，乡邑化之。
年四十余，始为郡吏。
以事系东郡发干狱。
translation: 
The ancestors of the Tan family are not disrespectful, and the Yangping clan is not prosperous.
The heavy marquis had many generals, built the Tianshu, and held the handle of the fighting. The reason why he was ridiculed at that time, especially in later generations, was why?
Just because he is full but not full, he has more than enough position but not enough benevolence and righteousness.
After the rise of the Han Dynasty, during the reigns of Emperor Ai and Emperor Ping, there were only four members of the ancestral family of twenty, and the entire Bao clan.
"Shu Jing" says: In view of the Yin Dynasty.
Isn't it prudent? The rise of the Dou family began with Emperor Xiaowen.
The eldest lord and the younger lord were honest and upright, and became famous the day before yesterday; Anfenghou Dou Rong was virtuous by supporting orders, and showed his self-resurgence.
Internally he was loyal to himself, and externally he used laws to guard himself. Finally, he enjoyed the national honor and has been blessed to this day.
The light of modesty is praised in the Book of Changes; the position of overflowing is warned by Taoism.
Therefore, when a gentleman is prosperous, he will be more cautious; when he is prosperous, he will be more respectful.
There are rules to follow when looking at distance and pitch, which are engraved on several sticks and between the pans.
Work diligently and never dare to be idle.
In this way, a hundred blessings will come, and the flow of celebration will be endless.
When Dou Xian became a general of chariots and cavalry, he summoned Cui Xiang to be a courier.
The Xian Mansion was noble and had thirty people, all of whom were former governors and had two thousand stones. Only Cui Heng, who was a young scholar, was promoted among them.
Dou Xian was arrogant and unbridled in his power, but Cui Cheng tried to dissuade him many times. When the Xiongnu attacked, there were more illegal things on the road. Cui Xiang took charge of the book and recorded it dozens of times, pointing out the pros and cons.
Dou Xian couldn't tolerate it and alienated him slightly. Because Cui Xiang was born in Gaodi, he asked him to be the magistrate of Changling County.
Cui Xiang thought that he was not satisfied with his departure, so he returned home without receiving his official position.
In the fourth year of Yongyuan's reign, he died at home.
He has written a total of twenty-one poems, poems, poems, inscriptions, odes, books, notes, tables, "Seven Yis", "Wedding Conclusion", "Declaration of Purpose" and "Drinking Police".
Cui Yuan, the middle son.
◆Cui Yuan's biography, Cui Yuan's courtesy name is Ziyu. He lost his father in his early years. He was eager to learn and try his best to inherit his father's business.
At the age of eighteen, he went to the capital, where he served Jia Kui, a servant, who treated him well. Cui Yuan then had the opportunity to study abroad, and then Mingguan, Lishu, "Jingfang Yi Zhuan", six days and seven minutes.
All Confucian scholars regard him as their sect.
He was particularly friendly with Fufeng Ma Rong and Nanyang Zhang Heng.
At first, Cui Yuan's brother Cui Zhang was killed by the people of the state. Cui Yuan took revenge with a bare blade and ran away for his life.
I met Amnesty and returned home.
The family is poor, the brothers have lived together for decades, and the town has been influenced by them.
Cui Yuan was in his forties before he became a county official.
He was imprisoned in Faqian County, Dong County due to the incident.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
狱掾善为《礼》，瑗间考讯时，辄问以《礼》说。
其专心好学，虽颠沛必于是。
后事释归家，为度辽将军邓遵所辟。
居无何，遵被诛，瑗免归。
瑚复辟车骑将军阎显府。
时阎太后称制，显入参政事。
先是，安帝废太子为济阴王，而以北乡侯为嗣。
瑗以侯立不以正，知显将败，欲说蓬废立，而显日沉醉，不能得见。
乃谓长史陈禅曰： 中常侍江京、陈达等，得以嬖宠惑蛊先帝，遂使废黜正统，扶立疏孽。
少帝即位，发病庙中，周勃之征，于斯复见。
今欲与长史君共求见，说将军白太后，收京等，废少帝，引立济阴王，必上当天心，下合人望。
伊、霍之功，不下席而立炁则将军兄弟传祚于无穷。
若拒违天意，久旷神器，则将以无罪并辜元恶。
此所谓祸福之会，分功之时。
禅犹豫未敢从。
会北乡侯薨，孙程立济阴王，是为顺帝。
阎显兄弟悉伏诛，瑗坐被斥。
门生苏祇具知瑗谋，欲上书言状，瑗闻而遽止之。
时陈禅为司隶校尉，召瑗谓曰： 第听祇上书，禅请为之证。
瑗曰： 此譬犹兒妾屏语耳，愿使君勿复出口。
遂辞归，不复应州郡命。
久之，大将军梁商初开莫府，复首辟瑗。
自以再为贵戚吏，不遇被斥，遂以戚固辞。
岁中举茂才，迁汲令。
在事数言便宜，为人开稻田数百顷。
视事七年，百姓歌之。
汉安初，大司农胡广、少府窦章共荐瑗宿德大儒，从政有迹，不宜久在下位，由此迁济北相。
时，李固为太山太守，美瑗文雅，奉书礼致殷勤。
岁余，光禄大夫杜乔为八使，徇行郡国，以臧罪奏瑗，征诣廷尉。
瑗上书自讼，得理出。
会病卒，年六十六。
临终，顾命子寔曰： 夫人禀天地之气以生，及其终也，归精于天，还骨于地。
translation: 
During the prison meeting, Cui Yuan often read "Book of Rites" after conducting examinations.
He was attentive and eager to learn, even in bad times.
Later, when the matter was clarified, he was released home and was summoned by Deng Zun, the general of Liao Dynasty.
Soon, Deng Zun was killed and Cui Yuan was dismissed from his post and returned.
Later he was summoned to the palace of Yan Xian, the general of chariots and cavalry.
At that time, the Queen Mother Yan took the title of regent and acted on behalf of the emperor. Yan Xian entered the court to participate in political affairs.
First, Emperor An deposed the prince as King of Jiyin and made Beixiang Marquis his heir.
Cui Yuan believed that setting up a marquis was not correct. Knowing that Yan Xian would fail, he wanted to abolish the order, but Yan Xian was too drunk to see him.
So he told Chen Chan, the chief minister: "Zhongchang served Jiang Jing, Chen Da, etc., and bewitched the late emperor because of his favor, so he deposed the orthodox ones and supported the evil ones."
When the young emperor ascended the throne, he became ill in the temple, and Zhou Bo's autocratic power reappeared here.
Now I would like to seek an audience with Chang Shijun, and persuade the general to ask the Queen Mother to arrest Jiang Jing and others, depose the young emperor, and install King Jiyin. This will surely harmonize the hearts of heaven and the hopes of people.
Yi and Huo's meritorious deeds did not leave the table, and the generals and brothers would pass on their achievements to infinity.
If you refuse to disobey God's will and remain empty of the throne for a long time, your innocence will turn into a great evil.
This is the opportunity for misfortune and fortune, the time for division of merit.
Chen Chan hesitated and did not dare to obey.
When the Marquis of Beixiang died, Sun Cheng established himself as King Jiyin. This was Emperor Shun.
The Yan Xian brothers were all killed, and Cui Yuan was also ostracized.
Disciple Su Yuanshi knew all about Cui Yuan's intentions and wanted to write a letter to explain the situation clearly, but Cui Yuan stopped him immediately after hearing it.
At that time, Chen Chan became the captain of the Sili school and summoned Cui Yuan. He said to Yuan: "But after listening to Su Yu's letter, please let me bear witness for you."
Cui Yuan said: This is just like a son and a young wife talking privately. I hope you won't say it out loud.
So he resigned and returned home, no longer answering the orders of the state and county.
After a long time, General Liang Shangchu opened his mansion and summoned Cui Yuan.
Officials who thought they were noble relatives might be reprimanded again, so they resigned because of their illness.
In the middle of the year, he was promoted to Maocai and appointed county magistrate.
While in office, he talked about current affairs several times and cultivated hundreds of hectares of rice fields for the people.
After seven years in office, the people sang his praises.
In the early years of Han'an, Hu Guang, the chief minister, and Dou Zhang, the chief minister, jointly recommended Cui Yuan as a great scholar of virtue. He had made great achievements in politics and should not be in the lower position for a long time, so he was promoted to the prime minister of Jibei.
At this time, Li Gu was the governor of Taishan. He praised Cui Yuan for his elegance and presented him with a letter to express his hospitality.
For more than a year, Guanglu doctor Du Qiao served as eight envoys and traveled around the country. Cui Yuan was accused of embezzlement and summoned to Tingwei.
Cui Yuan filed a petition to sue himself and found out the facts of the case and released him.
Soon he died of illness at the age of sixty-six.
When he was dying, Cui Chen, Gu Ming's son, said: People live by the energy of heaven and earth. When they die, their essence returns to heaven and their bones return to earth.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
何地不可臧形骸，勿归乡里。
其帽赠之物，羊豕之奠，一不得受。
寔奉遗令，遂留葬洛阳。
瑗高于文辞，尤善为书、记、箴、铭，所著赋、碑、铭、箴、颂、《七苏》、《南阳文学官志》、《叹辞》、《移社文》、《悔祈》、《草书艺》七言，凡五十七篇。
其《南阳文学官志》称于后世，诸能为文者皆自以弗及。
瑗爱士，好宾客，盛修肴膳，单极滋味，不问余产。
居常蔬食菜羹而已。
家无担石储，当世清之。
寔字子真，一名台，字元始。
少沉静，好典籍。
父卒，隐居墓侧。
服竟，三公并辟，皆不就。
桓帝初，诏公卿郡国举至孝独行之士。
寔以郡举，征诣公车，病不对策，除为郎。明于政体，吏才有余，论当世便事数十条，名曰《政论》。
指切时要，言辩而确，当世称之。
仲长统曰： 凡为人主，宜写一通，置之坐侧。
其辞曰：自尧、舜之帝，汤、武之王，皆赖明哲之佐，博物之臣。
故皋陶陈谟而唐、虞以兴，伊、箕作训而殷、周用隆。
及继体之君，欲立中兴之功者，曷尝不赖贤哲之谋乎！
凡天下所以不理者，常由人主承平日久，俗渐敝而不悟，政浸衰而不改，习乱安危，不自睹。
或荒耽嗜欲，不恤万机；或耳蔽箴诲，厌伪忽真；或犹豫歧路，莫适所从；或见信之佐，括囊守禄；或疏远之臣，言以贱废，是以王纲纵弛于上，智士郁伊于下。悲夫！自汉兴以来，三百五十余岁矣。
政令垢玩，上下怠懈，风俗凋敝，人庶巧伪，百姓嚣然，咸复思中兴之救矣。
且济时拯世之术，岂必体尧蹈舜然后乃理哉？
期于补衤定决坏，枝柱邪倾，随形裁割，要措斯世于安宁之域而已。
translation: 
Do not bury your body anywhere, and do not return to your hometown.
Those gifts that are offered as sacrifices to sheep and pigs are not allowed to be accepted.
Cui Chen followed his will and was buried in Luoyang.
Cui Yuan has a high level of literary skills, and is especially good at composing books, records, proverbs, and inscriptions. He has written fuss, stele, inscriptions, proverbs, odes, "Qi Su", "Nanyang Literary Official Chronicles", "Sighs", "Yishe Wen", "Repentance Prayer", "Cursive Calligraphy Art", and a total of fifty-seven articles in seven characters.
His "Nanyang Literary Official Chronicle" was known in later generations, and those who could write thought they could not catch up.
Cui Yuan loves scholars, welcomes guests, prepares dishes and meals, and uses all the delicacies, regardless of how much is left.
My daily diet is just vegetables and vegetable soup.
The family did not have much savings and was considered very honest in the world.
◆The biography of Cui Chen, Cui Chen, Yu Zizhen, also known as Tai, with the courtesy name Yuanshi.
When I was young, I was very quiet and loved reading.
After his father died, he stayed at the tomb to mourn.
When the mourning period was over, the three princes invited him to serve as an official, but he refused to go.
In the early years of Emperor Huan's reign, the emperor issued an edict to the governors and counties to recommend people with extremely filial piety and good moral character.
Cui Chen was unable to attend the interview due to illness and became a man. Cui Chen was very shrewd about political systems and had strong official abilities. He wrote dozens of opinions commenting on contemporary political affairs, titled "Political Commentary".
Aiming at the key points at the time, the discussion was very correct and won praise from contemporary people.
Zhong Changtong said: All kings should copy it as a motto.
The article says: Since Emperors Yao, Shun, Tang, and Wu, they have relied on wise ministers to assist them, and learned men as advisers.
So Gao Tao wrote "Mo" and Tang Yu prospered; Yi Yin and Ji Zi wrote "Xun" and Shang and Zhou Dynasties also prospered.
When future generations of monarchs want to make great achievements, why not rely on sage ministers to advise them?
When the world is not governed well, it is often because the monarch has been in peace for too long, customs have gradually declined without realizing it, politics has gradually become corrupt without repentance, and he has turned a blind eye to the dangerous and chaotic environment.
Some people are intoxicated in selfish desires and ignore national affairs; some people cannot listen to good words and confuse right and wrong; some people are wandering at the crossroads, not knowing where to go; some people have credible assistants around them, but they are not allowed to speak; some people see alienated ministers and cannot listen because of their low status. Therefore, Wang Gang is idle at the top, and the wise men are melancholy at the bottom. How sad and lamentable! It has been more than three hundred and fifty years since the rise of the Han Dynasty.
The government orders are covered with dust, the superiors and subordinates are lazy, the customs are decayed, there are many people who are cunning and hypocritical, and the people are talking about it, all hoping that it will be saved if they rise to power.
Besides, the method of saving the world must be governed by the methods of Yao and Shun.
As long as we can make up for the shortcomings, add pillars to support the building, prescribe the right medicine according to the actual situation and tailor the situation, in short, we must put the country in a peaceful state.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
故圣人执权，遭时定制，步骤之差，各有云设。
不强人以不能，背急切而慕所闻也。
盖孔子对叶公以来远，哀公以临人，景公以节礼，非其不同，所急异务也。
是以受命之君，每辄创制；中兴之主，亦匡时失。
昔盘庚愍殷，迁都易民；周穆有阙，甫侯正刑。
俗人拘文牵古，不达权制，奇伟所闻，简忽所见，乌可与论国家之大事哉！
故言事者，虽合圣德，辄见掎夺。
何者？
其顽士暗于时权，安习所见，不知乐成，况可虑始，苟云率由旧章而已。
其达者或矜名妒能，耻策非已，舞笔夺辞，以破其义，寡不胜众，遂见摈弃。
虽稷、契复存，犹将困焉。
斯贾生之所以排于绛、灌，屈子之所以摅其幽愤者也。
夫以文帝之明，贾生之贤，绛、灌之忠，而有此患，况其余哉！
量力度德，《春秋》之义，今既不能纯法八代，故宜参以霸政，则宜重赏深罚以御之，明著法术以检之。
自非上德，严之则理，宽之则乱。
何以明其然也：近孝宣皇帝明于君人之道，审于为政之理，故严刑峻法，破奸轨之胆，海内清肃，天下密如。
荐勋祖庙，享号中宗。
算计见效，优于孝文。
及元帝即位，多行宽政，卒以堕损，威权始夺，遂为汉室基祸之主。
政道得失，于斯可监。
昔孔子作《春秋》，褒齐桓，懿晋文，叹管仲之功。
夫岂不美文、武之道哉？
诚达权救敝之理也。
translation: 
Therefore, the sage is responsible for weighing and formulating countermeasures according to the actual situation. The steps are different and each has its own clever arrangement.
It is not advisable to force people to do things they cannot do, and to pursue what they hear is contrary to the urgent needs of the time.
In the past, Confucius' answers to the monarch's questions varied based on people and circumstances. His answer to Duke Ye's question about government was to ask those who are near to be pleased and those who are far away to come; his answer to Duke Ai of Lu was that "policy depends on selecting talents"; his answer to Duke Jin of Qi was that "government depends on saving money". It is not that the way of government is different, but that the priorities are different.
Therefore, those who have just accepted the destiny to be king often have some unique regulations, and the king of Zhongxing also has to correct the mistakes made at that time.
In ancient times, Pan Geng wanted to revive the Shang Dynasty and moved the capital from Geng to Bo; King Mu of Zhou made mistakes and asked Fuhou to amend the criminal law.
However, there are some common people who stick to ancient written records, do not know how to make changes, listen to strange news, and ignore the reality before them. How can we discuss national affairs with them!
Therefore, although talking about political affairs sounds like it is in line with holiness, it actually does not work.
Why?
Those stubborn people had no understanding of the situation at that time and were accustomed to following the same old path. I don’t know how to enjoy the success, how can I think about creating a new situation, just follow the old rules.
Some of those knowledgeable people boast about themselves, are jealous of others, are unwilling to cooperate with those who have different political views, and write eloquent articles to express their meaning. However, the minority is outnumbered after all, and is eventually abandoned.
Even if wise ministers like Ji and Qi are still there, it will still be difficult.
This is the reason why Jia Yi was ostracized by Jiang and Guan, and why Qu Yuan wrote "Li Sao" to vent his anger.
Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty was so wise, Jia Sheng was so talented, and Jiang and Guan were so loyal. If there was such a result, what about the rest of the people? Virtue is measured by strength, this is mentioned in "Spring and Autumn".
Now we cannot completely follow the methods of the Three Sovereigns and Five Emperors. We should participate in some hegemony, govern the country with heavy rewards and deep punishments, and clearly formulate laws to check all work.
If you do not possess superior moral character, you will be able to govern strictly if you are strict, but you will be disordered if you are loose.
How do you know this is the case? In modern times, Emperor Xiaoxuan understood the way of being a king and studied the principles of government, so he adopted severe punishments to scare the bad guys out of fear, and the domestic political discipline was strict and the world was peaceful.
His merits were reported to the ancestral temple and he was given the posthumous title of Zhongzong.
His plans and effects surpassed that of Emperor Xiaowen.
Later, when Emperor Yuan came to the throne, he mostly used loose politics, but the result was a complete failure, and his authority was usurped, which became the source of troubles for the decline of the Han Dynasty.
The good and bad of politics can be seen clearly here.
In ancient times, Confucius wrote the Spring and Autumn Annals, praising Duke Huan of Qi and Duke Wen of Jin for their hegemony, and commending Guan Zhong for his contributions.
Don’t you know the right way to praise King Wen and King Wu of Zhou?
It is indeed the principle of using power and change to save the decline.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
故圣人能与世推移，而俗士苦不知变，以为结绳之约，可复理乱秦之绪，《干戚》之舞，足以解平城之围。夫熊经鸟伸，虽延历之术，非伤寒之理；呼吸吐纳，虽度纪之道，非续骨之膏。
盖为国之法，有似理身，平则致养，疾则攻焉。
夫刑罚者，治乱之药石也；德教者，兴平之粱肉也。
夫以德教除残，是以梁肉理疾也；以刑罚理平，是以药石供养也。
方今承百王之敝，值厄运之会。
自数世以来，政多恩贡，驭委其辔，马骀其衔，四牡横奔，皇路险倾。
方将柑勒鞬辀以救之，岂暇鸣和銮，清节奏哉？
昔高祖令萧何作九章之律，有夷三族之令，黥、劓、斩趾、断舌、枭首，故谓之具五刑。
文帝虽除肉刑，当劓者笞三百，当斩左趾者笞五百，当斩右趾者弃市。
右趾者既殒其命，笞挞者往往至死，虽有轻刑之名，其实捅也。
当此之时，民皆思复肉刑。
至景帝元年，乃下诏曰： 加笞与重罪无异，幸而不死，不可为人。
乃定律，减笞轻捶。
自是之后，笞者得全。
以此言之，文帝乃重刑，非轻之也；以严致平，非以宽致平也。
必欲行若言，当大定其本，使人主师五帝而式三王，荡亡秦之俗，遵先圣之风，弃苟全之政，蹈稽古之踪，复五等之爵，立井田之制。
然后选稷、契为佐，伊吕为辅，乐作而凤皇仪，击石而百兽舞。
若不然，则多为累而已。
其后辟太尉袁汤、大将军梁冀府，并不应。
translation: 
Therefore, saints can adapt to changes in the situation, but laymen do not understand changes. They believe that the ancient method of knotting ropes can be used to control the chaos of the Qin Dynasty, and the dance of "Qian Qi" can relieve the siege of Pingcheng, the emperor of the Han Dynasty. Isn't this a thousand miles apart? Although imitating the movement of a bear and stretching the neck of a bird to inhale is a way to prolong life, it cannot cure typhoid fever; breathing and exhaling can increase lifespan, but it cannot connect broken bones.
The method of governing a country is a bit like treating a disease. You should pay attention to how to maintain your health and prescribe the right medicine when you are sick.
Punishment is like a prescription to cure troubled times; moral education is like meat that nourishes the body.
Using moral education to eliminate cruelty is equivalent to using meat to cure diseases. Using punishment to govern a peaceful world is equivalent to using medicinal stones for nutrition.
Now is the period of decline and decline of the Hundred Kings, the time of misfortune.
For several generations, the government has been generous and lenient, just like the driver of the carriage has lost his horse's faucet, and the horse has no bit, allowing the four stallions to run wild and almost fall over on the road.
It's time to add a dragon head chew to save it. Do you have time to listen to them ringing the bells and pressing the bridle rhythmically?
In the past, the emperor of the Han Dynasty asked Xiao He to make nine chapters of the law, which included provisions for killing three tribes, including carving on the face, cutting off the nose, cutting off the toes, cutting off the tongue, and beheading, so it was called the Five Punishments.
Although Emperor Wen of the Han Dynasty abolished corporal punishment, those who should have their noses cut off were given three hundred boards, those who had their left toes chopped off were given five hundred boards, and those who should have their right toes chopped off were decapitated.
But those who had their right toes cut off were already dead, and those who were hit with boards were often beaten to death. Even if they were given a reduced punishment, they still killed a lot of people.
At this time, people all hoped to resume corporal punishment.
In the first year of Emperor Jing's reign, he issued an edict: "Being beaten more times is no different from a serious crime. Even if you are lucky enough to survive, you will be disabled."
So the law was revised to reduce the number of floggings.
From then on, those who were flogged were able to save their lives.
In this way, Emperor Wen of Han was still punished severely, not lightly. Peace is achieved through severe punishment, not through forgiveness.
We must make sure that our actions and words are consistent, and we should start from the fundamentals, so that people can learn from the Five Emperors and Three Kings. Break the corrupt customs of the Qin Dynasty, abide by the legacy of the previous kings, abandon measures that only seek temporary peace, repeat the old traces of ancient times, restore the five titles of duke, marquis, uncle, son, and male, and establish the well-field system of one part public land and eight parts private land.
Then he selected wise ministers like Ji and Qi as assistants, and selected Yi Yin and Lu Shang as prime ministers. When playing music, the phoenix led hundreds of birds to the court, struck stone chimes, and hundreds of beasts came to dance.
If not, then any more is just a burden.
Later, the imperial court asked Cui Chen to serve as an official in the mansion of Taiwei Yuan Tang and General Liang Ji, but Cui Chen refused to go.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
大司农羊傅、少府何豹上书荐寔才美能高，宜在朝廷。
召拜议郎，迁大将军冀司马，与边韶、延笃等著作东观。
出为五原太守。
五原土宜麻枲，而俗不知织绩，民冬月无衣，积细草而卧其中，见吏则衣草而出。
寔至官，斥卖储峙，为作纺绩、织纴，綀缊之具以教之，民得以免寒苦。
是时胡虏连入云中、朔方，杀略吏民，一岁至九奔命。
寔整厉士马，严烽候，虏不敢犯，常为边最。
以病征，拜议郎，复与诸儒博士共杂定《五经》。
会梁冀诛，寔以故吏免官，禁锢数年。
时，鲜卑数犯边，诏三公举威武谋略之士，司空黄琼荐寔，拜辽东太守。
行道，母刘氏病卒，上疏求归葬行丧。
母有母仪淑德，博览书传。
初，寔在五原，常训以临民之政，寔之善绩，母有其助焉。
服竟，召拜尚书。
寔以世方阻乱，称疾不视事，数月免归。
初，寔父卒，剽卖田宅，起冢茔，立碑颂。
葬讫，资产竭尽，因穷困，以酤酿贩鬻为业。
时人多以此讥之，寔终不改。
亦取足而已，不致盈余。
及仕官，历位边郡，而愈贫薄。
建宁中病卒。
家徒四壁立，无以殡敛，光禄勋杨赐、太仆袁逢、少府段颎为备棺葬具，大鸿胪袁隗树碑颂德。
所著碑、论、箴、铭、答、七言、祠、文、表、记、书凡十五篇。
translation: 
Taisi Nongyang Fu and Shaofu He Bao wrote to recommend Cui Chen, saying that Cui Chen was very talented and capable and should be an official in the court.
So the emperor made Cui Yilang, promoted General Liang Ji to Sima, and wrote books and theories in Dongguan with Bian Shao, Yandu and others.
Later, Cui Chen became the governor of Wuyuan.
The soil in Wuyuan is suitable for growing hemp, but the local people do not know how to weave cloth. The people have no clothes to wear in winter, so they pile some fine grass to sleep in the grass, and when they see the officials, they come out covered with grass.
After Cui Chen took office, he asked the people to sell their stored grains, buy textiles, weave 纟第, 緺箷 and other tools for them and teach them how to use them, so that the people could avoid the suffering of cold and exhaustion.
At this time, the Xiongnu invaded Yunzhong and Shuofang successively, killing and plundering officials and people, and fled for their lives nine times in a year.
Cui Chen strengthened his troops and ordered beacon towers to conduct reconnaissance. The enemy did not dare to invade, making it the quietest place on the frontier.
When Cui Chen was ill, he was worshiped as Yilang, and he reviewed the Five Classics with famous Confucian doctors at the time.
It happened that Liang Ji was killed. Cui Chen was an old official of Liang Ji. He was implicated, dismissed from his official position, and was imprisoned for several years.
At that time, Xianbei invaded the border many times, and the emperor issued an edict to recommend powerful strategists to the three princes. Sikong Huang Qiong recommended Cui Chen, who was worshiped as the governor of Liaodong.
Halfway through the journey, his mother Liu died of illness. Cui Chen asked Shangshu to go home to attend to the funeral.
My mother, Mrs. Liu, was of very good character during her lifetime and read a lot of books.
At first, Cui Chen served as the prefect of Wuyuan, and his mother often taught him how to manage political affairs. Cui Chen's good achievements were very helpful to his mother.
After the mourning was over, the emperor made him minister again.
Cui Chen was dismissed from his post and returned home after a few months on the grounds that the current situation was in chaos and he was ill and could not work.
When Cui Chen's father died, Cui Chen sold his property, made a tomb, and erected a tombstone.
After the burial, all the family property was sold. Because of poverty, he made a living by selling wine and porridge.
At that time, many people ridiculed him for this, but he never changed.
When he does business, he just wants to make enough money, and he doesn't want to make more money.
Later, when they became officials, they were mostly in border areas, so they were even poorer.
He died during the Jianning period.
The family was very poor and had no money to bury him, so Guang Luxun Yang Ci, Imperial servant Yuan Feng, Shaofu Duan Yu and others prepared coffins and burial materials for him. Dahong Yuan Wei built a monument for him to praise his merits.
He wrote a total of fifteen inscriptions, essays, proverbs, inscriptions, answers, seven words, temples, essays, tables, notes and books.


