Chunk 0: 
original: 
司马相如字长卿，蜀郡成都人也。
少时好读书，学击剑，名犬子。
相如既学，慕蔺相如之为人也，更名相如。
以訾为郎，事孝景帝，为武骑常侍，非其好也。
会景帝不好辞赋，是时梁孝王来朝，从游说之士齐人邹阳、淮阴枚乘、吴严忌夫子之徒，相如见而说之，因病免，客游梁，得与诸侯游士居，数岁，乃著《子虚之赋》。
会梁孝王薨，相如归，而家贫无以自业。
索与临邛令王吉相善，吉曰： 长卿久宦游，不遂而困，来过我。
于是相如往舍都亭，临邛令缪为恭敬，日往朝相如。
相如初尚见之，后称病，使从者谢吉，吉愈益谨肃。
临邛多富人，卓王孙僮客八百人，程郑亦数百人，乃相谓曰： 令有贵客，为具召之。
并召令。
令既至，卓氏客以百数，至日中请司马长卿，长卿谢病不能临。
translation: 
Sima Xiangru, courtesy name Changqing, was born in Chengdu, Shu County.
When he was young, he loved studying and practiced fencing, so he was named Quanzi.
After Xiangru completed his studies, he admired Lin Xiangru's character and changed his name to Xiangru.
He used family funds to buy a Langguan, serve Emperor Jing of the Han Dynasty, and served as a regular attendant on martial arts, but this was not his hobby.
It happened that Emperor Jing did not like to write poems. At this time, King Xiao of Liang came to Beijing to see the emperor. Zou Yang from Qijun, Meicheng from Huaiyin, Yan Ji from Wuxian and other lobbyists came to Beijing with him.
When King Xiao of Liang died, Xiangru returned home. He was poor and had nothing to do.
He had always been on good terms with Wang Ji, the magistrate of Linyin County. Wang Ji said: "I have been looking for an official position abroad for many years and have not been very satisfied. You can come to me."
So Xiangru went to Linyin.
Live in a hotel outside the city. The county magistrate of Linyin showed his courtesy and visited Xiangru every day. Xiangru initially received him, but later claimed to be ill and asked his entourage to say goodbye to Wang Ji. Wang Ji became more cautious and respectful.
There were many rich people in Linyin City. Prince Zhuo and his wife had 800 slaves, and Cheng Yin also had several hundred slaves. The two of them called each other, "The county magistrate has a distinguished guest. We must hold a banquet to entertain him."
Also invite the county magistrate.
The county magistrate has arrived, and Zhuo's guests are counted in hundreds. At noon, Sima Changqing was invited. The Changqing said he was ill and could not go. The Linyin County magistrate did not dare to taste the food and went to greet Xiangru in person.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
临邛令不敢尝食，身自迎相如，相如为不得已而强往，一坐尽倾。
酒酣，临邛令前奏琴曰： 窃闻长卿好之，愿以自娱。
相如辞谢，为鼓一再行。
是时，卓王孙有女文君新寡，好音，故相如缪与令相重而以琴心挑之。
相如时从车骑，雍容闲雅，甚都。及饮卓氏弄琴，文君窃从户窥，心说而好之，恐不得当也。
既罢，相如乃令侍人重赐文君侍者通殷勤。
文君夜亡奔相如，相如与驰归成都。
家徒四壁立。
卓王孙大怒曰： 女不材，我不忍杀，一钱不分也！
人或谓王孙，王孙终不听。
文君久之不乐，谓长卿曰： 弟俱如临邛，比昆弟假貣，犹足以为生，何至自苦如此！
相如与俱之临邛，尽卖车骑，买酒舍，乃令文君当卢。相如身自著犊鼻裈，与庸保杂作，涤器于市中。
卓王孙耻之，为杜门不出。
translation: 
Xiangru has no choice but to do so.
He reluctantly went there, and everyone in the house admired his style. When the wine was in full swing, the Linyin County Magistrate came forward with the piano in his hands and said: "I heard privately that Chang Qing likes this, and hopes to play it to make himself happy."
Xiangru declined and played a tune or two.
At this time, Zhuo Wangsun had a daughter named Wenjun, whose husband had just died. She loved music, so Xiangru pretended to respect the county magistrate and teased her with the sound of the piano.
When Xiangru came to Lingongkou, he was accompanied by carriages and horses, and his behavior was generous and handsome. When he was drinking and playing piano at Huangdi's house, Sai Jun secretly peeked at him from the crack in the door. He was happy and admired him, and was worried that he would not be worthy of him.
After the piano playing was over, Xiangru asked Wenjun's waiter to reward him generously to express his personal feelings to her.
Wenjun escaped from home at night and eloped with Xiangru, so Xiangru and Wenjun drove back to Chengdu in a hurry.
The home is empty except for the four upright walls.
Zhuo Wangsun lost his temper and said: My daughter is extremely incompetent. I can't bear to kill her, but I will never give her a cent!
Some people tried to persuade Wang Sun, but Wang Sun still refused to listen.
After a long time, Wenjun felt unhappy and said: "Changqing just went to Linyin with me, and borrowing money from the brothers was enough to survive. Why did you put yourself in such hardship?"
Xiangru and Wenjun came to Linyin together, sold all the carriages and horses, and bought a hotel to start a wine business. He asked Wenjun to sit in front of the stove and sell wine.
When Zhuo Wangsun heard about it, he thought it was a great shame and humiliation, so he stayed behind closed doors.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
昆弟诸公更谓王孙曰： 有一男两女，所不足者非财也。
今文君既失身于司马长卿，长卿故倦游，虽贫，其人材足依也。且又令客，奈何相辱如此！
卓王孙不得已，分与文君僮百人，钱百万，及其嫁时衣被财物。
文君乃与相如归成都，买田宅，为富人。
居久之，蜀人杨得意为狗监，侍上。
上读《子虚赋》而善之，曰： 朕独不得与此人同时哉！
得意曰： 臣邑人司马相如自言为此赋。
上惊，乃召问相如。
相如曰： 有是。
然此乃诸侯之事，未足观，请为天子游猎之赋。
上令尚书给笔札，相如以 子虚 ，虚言也，为楚称； 乌有先生 者，乌有此事也，为齐难； 亡是公 者，亡是人也，欲明天子之义。
故虚借此三人为辞，以推天子诸侯之苑囿。
其卒章归之于节俭，因以风谏。
奏之天子，天子大说。
translation: 
Brothers and elders took turns to persuade the king and grandson: "You only have one son and two daughters. What you lack is not money."
Now Wenjun has committed himself to Sima Changqing. Changqing was tired of being an official. Although his family was poor, his talents could be relied on. Besides, he was a guest of the county magistrate. Why did he insult each other like this!
Zhuo Wangsun had no choice but to give Wenjun a hundred slaves and one million in money, as well as the clothes, bedding, money and belongings she had used when she got married.
Wenjun and Xiangru returned to Chengdu, bought land and houses, and became rich.
Soon after, Yang Deyi, a native of Shu County, was appointed as a dog prisoner to serve Han Wutong.
Gentong also read "Zixu Fu" and praised it highly, saying: "I just can't be at the same time with this person!"
De proudly said: My fellow countryman Sima Xiangru said that this poem was written by him.
The emperor was shocked and summoned Xiangru to question him.
Xiangru said: There is such a thing.
However, this is about the affairs of princes and is not worth reading. Please allow me to make a gift for the emperor's hunting trip, and I will submit it after the gift is completed.
The emperor agreed to him and asked the minister to give him a writing brush and wooden slips. Xiangru used "Zixu" as empty words to praise the beauty of Chu; "Mr. Wu You" was to challenge Chu for Qi; he died because he was a public servant, but because there was no such person, it was to clarify the principle of being the emperor.
Therefore, three people were fabricated out of thin air and wrote an article to speculate on the scene of the emperor's princes playing and hunting in the garden.
At the end of that article, it boiled down to the word frugality, and I wanted to use this to persuade the emperor.
The emperor was very happy and wrote:


Chunk 3: 
original: 
其辞曰：楚使子虚使于齐，齐王悉发车骑与使者出田。
田罢，子虚过姹乌有先生，亡是公存焉。
坐定，乌有先生问曰： 今日田乐乎？
子虚曰： 乐。  获多乎？
曰： 少。
然则何乐？ 对曰： 仆乐王之欲夸仆以车骑之众，而仆对以云梦之事也。
曰： 可得闻乎？
子虚曰： 可。王驾车千乘，选徒万骑，田于海滨，列卒满泽，罘罔弥山。
掩菟辚鹿，射麋格麟，鹜于盐浦，割鲜染轮。
射中获多，矜而自功，顾谓仆曰： 楚亦有平原广泽游猎之地饶乐若此者乎？
楚王之猎孰与寡人？
仆下车对曰： 臣，楚国之鄙人也，幸得宿卫十有余年，时从出游，游于后园，览于有无，然犹未能遍睹也。
又乌足以言其外泽乎？
齐王曰： 虽然，略以子之所闻见言之。  仆对曰： 唯唯。
translation: 
The state of Chu sent Zixu as an envoy to the state of Qi. The king of Qi sent all his chariots and horses to go hunting in the wild with the envoy.
After returning from hunting, Zixu went to visit Mr. Wu You to boast about the incident. At this time, the dead man was also with Zixu.
After everyone was divided into guests and hosts, Mr. Wu You asked: Are you happy hunting in the wild today?
Zixu replied: I am very happy. Did you catch a lot of prey?  not much.
Why are you so happy even though you haven’t gained much?
Zixu replied: I am happy that King Qi originally wanted to show off to me the many chariots and horses of King Qi, but I in turn praised to him the majesty of Yunmengze, the Daze across the Yangtze River in Chu State. Wu You said: Can you tell me?
Zixu said: Of course, the king of Qi personally led thousands of chariots and horses to the seaside for hunting. At that time, the soldiers were scattered in every corner of the grassland, and the snares for catching wild animals were taken down all over the mountains and plains.
The hare crashed into the hunting net, the galloping deer was crushed to death by the wheels, the horned elk was killed by arrows, and the male lin was pulled upside down by one leg.
Thousands of hunting vehicles and horses gallop on the salt flats of the seaside. The blood of hunted birds and beasts stained the wheels red.
After hunting many birds and beasts, King Qi proudly showed off his hunting skills. King Qi turned around and said to me: "Does your Chu State also have such fertile plains and vast grasslands for hunting and entertainment?"
How does your king of Chu's hunting in the wild compare with me?
I jumped out of the car and said to King Qi: "I am the most despicable person in the Chu Kingdom. I have very little knowledge. I have been fortunate enough to be a guard in the palace for more than ten years. I often go hunting with the King of Chu. Most of the hunting grounds are in the back garden. I have been to some places in the garden, but I have never seen some places."
I have never seen the whole of Houyuan, so how can I describe the situation outside Ze?
King Qi said: "Since this is the case, please briefly describe what you have seen and heard!"  I replied: Okay!


Chunk 4: 
original: 
臣闻楚有七泽，尝见其一，未睹其余也。
臣之所见，盖特其小小者耳，名曰云梦。
云梦者，方九百里，其中有山焉。
其山则盘纡岪郁，隆崇律崒；岑崟参差，日月蔽亏；交错纠纷，上干青云；罢池陂陁，下属江河。
其土则丹青赭垩，雌黄白坿，锡碧金银，众色炫耀，照烂龙鳞。
其石则赤玉玫瑰，琳珉昆吾，瑊玏玄厉，礝石武夫。
其东则有蕙圃，衡兰芷若，穹穷昌蒲，江离蘪芜，诸柘巴且。
其南则有平原广泽，登降阤靡，案衍坛曼，缘以大江，限以巫山。
其高燥则生析苞荔，薜莎青薠。
其埤湿则生藏莨蒹葭，东蘠雕胡，莲藉觚卢，奄闾轩于。
众物居之，不可胜图。
其西则有涌泉清池，激水推移，外发夫容华，内隐巨石白沙。
其中则有神龟蛟鼍，毒冒鳖鼋。
其北则有阴林巨树，楩楠豫章，桂椒木兰，檗离朱杨，樝梨梬栗，橘柚芬芳。
其上则有宛雏孔鸾，腾远射干。其下则有白虎玄豹，蟃蜒貙豻。
translation: 
I heard that there are seven great swamps in Chu State, but I have only seen one of them and never seen the other six.
Moreover, the grassland I have seen is a particularly small one, and its name is Yunmeng.
The surrounding area of ​​this grassland is nine hundred miles, and there are mountains in the grassland.
These mountains are twists and turns, tall and majestic, with uneven heights and canine teeth. The bright moon appears and disappears among the mountains. The peaks are staggered with high and low peaks, and the peaks reach directly into the blue clouds. The mountains stretch continuously into the distance and are connected with rivers.
The soil of the earth is vermilion, azurite, terracotta, white earth, realgar, lime, tin, jasper, gold, and silver. The colors are dazzling and dazzling. The colors are mixed and intertwined, like dragon scales shining together.
Mountain stones include red ruby, beautiful jade such as roses, linqiu, beautiful stones such as Minshi, Kunwu, jade-like alkali power, black Xuanli that can sharpen knives, white as ice, semi-red jade-like rhinestones, red ground with white veins, and fushu stone with indistinct color anthracite.
In the eastern part of Yunmengze, there is a garden where cymbidium grows, in which four kinds of herbs grow: Heng, orchid, angelica, and Duruo, as well as Qiongqiong, Changpu, Jiangli, Tengwu, sugarcane, and plantain.
The south of Yunmengze is a plain and wide swamp, with uneven terrain and many slopes. The swamp area is wide, with the Yangtze River as the edge and Wushan as the boundary.
In the high and dry areas of the lake, there grow bluegrass, valerian grass, bract grass, cattail grass, angelica root, cyperus rotundus, and green apple grass.
In low-lying and humid places, Tibetan grass, hyacinth grass, reeds, polygonum, wild rice, gouda, amama grass, and foil grass grow.
There are so many plants growing here that I can’t even count them.
There are gushing springs and crystal clear pools in the west of Yunmengze. The rushing water kept stirring and flowing. Huge boulders and white sand loom in the pool.
There are also sacred turtles, turtles, hawksbill turtles and soft-shell turtles living in the pool.
云梦泽的北部有茂密的森林和参天的大树，有椎树、楠树、枕树、樟树、桂树、椒树、木兰树、黄蘗树、山梨树、河柳树、山楂树、黑枣树和栗子树，以及橘子和袖子的果实香气四溢。
In the woods of Yunmengze, there are beautiful geese, peacocks, and phoenixes on the trees, apes and monkeys that are good at jumping among the trees with their arms stretched out, and wild trunks nesting in high trees on the cliffs. Under the tree there are white tigers and black panthers, a wolf-like orangutan, a fox-like body and a wild dog-like body.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
于是乎乃使剸诸之伦，手格此兽。
楚王乃驾驯驳之驷，乘雕玉之舆，靡鱼须之桡旃，曳明月之珠旗，建干将之雄戟，左鸟号之雕弓，右夏服之劲箭；阳子骖乘，孅阿为御；案节未舒，即陵狡兽，蹴蛩蛩，辚距虚，轶野马，车惠騊駼；乘遗风，射游骐，倏胂倩浰，雷动焱至，星流电击，弓不虚发，中必决眦，洞胸达掖，绝乎心系，获若雨兽，揜草蔽地。
于是楚王乃弭节徘徊，翱翔容与览乎阴林，观壮士之暴怒，与猛兽之恐惧，徼烋受诎，殚睹众物之变态。
于是郑女曼姬，被阿锡，揄纻缟，杂纤罗，垂雾縠，襞积褰绉，郁桡溪谷；衯々裶々，扬衪戌削，蜚襳垂髾；扶舆猗靡，翕呷萃蔡下摩兰蕙，上拂羽盖；错翡翠之葳蕤，缪绕玉绥；眇眇忽忽，若神之仿佛。于是乃群相与獠于蕙圃，媻姗勃窣，上金堤，揜翡翠，射鵕鸃，微矰出，孅缴施，弋白鹄，连驾鹅，双仓鸟下，扬旌枻，张翠帷，建羽盖。罔毒冒，钓紫贝，摐金鼓，吹鸣籁，榜人歌，声流喝，水虫骇，波鸿沸，涌泉起，奔扬会，礧石相击，琅琅礚々，若雷霆之声，闻乎数百里外。  将息獠者，击灵鼓，起烽燧，车案行，骑就队，纚乎淫淫，般乎裔裔。
于是楚王乃登阳云之台，泊乎无为，淡乎自持，勺药之和具而后御之。不若大王终日驰骋，曾不下舆，脟割轮焠，自以为娱。臣窃观之，齐殆不如。
于是王无以应仆也。
乌有先生曰： 是何言之过也！足下不远千里，来况齐国，王悉境内之士，备车骑之众，与使者出田，乃欲戮力致获，以娱左右也，何名为夸哉！
translation: 
So the King of Chu ordered warriors like Ge Zhu to fight these wolves and beasts with their bare hands without using any equipment.
The King of Chu himself drove a tame four-horse chariot, sat in a car decorated with jade, waved a curved war flag with a big fish beard as the flag spike, and waved a large flag inlaid with pearls.
Holding high the three-edged halberd forged by Gan Jiang, he holds the carved black-horned bow in his left hand, and the sharp arrows in the quiver of Houyi of Xia Dynasty in his right hand. In the chariot, Sun Yangzi Bole, who was good at looking at horses, accompanied him.
The one who drove the king of Chu was E'a who drove the moon god. The horse started slowly according to the rhythm, and before it started running, it had already trampled the agile beast under its feet.
Mix five-flavor food with peony and take it. Unlike King Qi, you suffer from the labor of riding and riding all day long, galloping on the battlefield. I cut some raw meat into pieces and grilled it before eating. And you thought it was a pleasure. In my opinion, King Qi, you may not be as good as King Chu.
So King Qi had nothing to say about what I said and was silent.
Mr. Wu You said: "Sir, that's wrong. Sir, you are not afraid of traveling thousands of miles to visit Qi State. The king of Qi mobilized domestic soldiers to prepare many vehicles and horses to accompany your envoys from Chu State on hunting expeditions. Originally, he wanted to do his best to capture a large number of birds and beasts to please and entertain the envoys of Chu State. How can it be said that he is showing off to you?"


Chunk 6: 
original: 
问楚地之有无者，愿闻大国之风烈，先生之余论也。
今足下不称楚王之德厚，而盛推云梦以为骄，奢言淫乐而显侈靡，窃为足下不取也。
必若所言，固非楚国之美也。
有而言之，是章君之恶也；无而言之，是害足下之信也。
章君恶，伤私义，二者无一可，而先生行之，必且轻于齐而累于楚矣。
且齐东陼巨海，南有琅邪，观乎成山，射乎之罘，浮勃澥，游孟诸，邪与肃慎为邻，右以汤谷为界。秋田乎青丘，仿偟乎海外，吞若云梦者八九，其于匈中曾不蒂芥。若乃俶倘瑰玮，异方殊类，珍怪鸟兽，万端鳞崒，充仞其中者，不可胜记，禹不能名，卨不能计。
然在诸侯之位，不敢言游戏之乐，苑囿之大；先生又见客，是以王辞不复，何为无以应哉！
亡是公听然而笑曰： 楚则失矣，而齐亦未为得也。
translation: 
I am asking you about the rich products in the Chu State. I want to know about the good governance policies and achievements of a big country like Chu State, as well as your grand strategy, sir.
Today, sir, instead of praising King Chu's benevolent virtues, you are praising Yun Mengze and making you proud of it. Using too many words to promote excessive pursuit of pleasure will expose the shortcomings of extravagance. I think your approach, sir, is not advisable.
As you said, sir, this may not be the virtue of Chu.
If the things you said are indeed true, then sir, you are promoting the ugly behavior of the King of Chu. If it is false and there is no such thing, it will hurt your integrity, sir!
Publicizing the king's ugly behavior and hurting your own integrity, sir, are both undesirable. But the gentleman did this. Doing so will inevitably be despised by the state of Qi, and will also bring harm and drag down the state of Chu.
Hunting is possible in Cheonggu on the Korean Peninsula in autumn. Travel freely across the world. Even if there are eight or nine large swamps like Yunmengze, placed within the territory of Qi State, it will be like a thorn or a mustard in the chest, and there will be no feeling. As for all kinds of rare treasures and thousands of rare birds and beasts, they are like fish scales gathered in Qi State, too many to count. Even Dayu couldn't name them, and he couldn't count their numbers with meat.
However, the King of Qi was in the position of a prince and did not dare to talk about the joy of hunting and boasting about the vastness of the garden. Moreover, the gentleman was invited as a guest and received with courtesy. Therefore, King Qi did not make any answer. What kind of speechlessness was this?
After hearing what they said, Duke Su Shi laughed loudly and said: "Chu is wrong, but Qi is not necessarily right either."


Chunk 7: 
original: 
夫使诸侯纳贡者，非为财币，所以述职也；封疆画界者，非为守御，所以禁淫也。
今齐列为东蕃，而外私肃慎，捐国隃限，越海而田，其于义固未可也。
且二君之论，不务明君臣之义，正诸侯之礼，徒事争于游戏之乐，苑囿之大，欲以奢侈相胜，荒淫相越，此不可以扬名发誉，而适足以贬君自损也。
且夫齐、楚之事又乌足道乎！
君未睹夫巨丽也，独不闻天子之上林乎？
左苍梧，右西极，丹水更其南，紫渊径其北。
终始霸、产，出入泾、渭，酆、镐、潦、潏，纡余委蛇，经营其内。
translation: 
The so-called emperor asked the princes to pay tribute, not to obtain treasures and coins, but to ask the princes to come and state government affairs.
The emperor set out boundaries for the princes, not to defend the princes, but to prevent the princes from indulging themselves in overstepping their bounds and infringing upon each other's borders.
Nowadays, the Qi State, as a vassal state in the east that shields the central government, has an affair with Su Shen. Leaving one's own territory, crossing the borders of other countries, and crossing the sea to hunt is morally and etiquette not in line with the status of a prince. Moreover, what these two gentlemen are talking about is not talking about the morality between monarch and ministers, nor is it about correcting etiquette among princes. Instead, you just blindly boast about your monarch's joy and fun during hunting, the vast territory of the garden, competing with each other, and taking pride in luxury and debauchery. This approach not only fails to make your country famous, improve your honor and fame, and enhance your personal reputation, but it just plays the role of belittling your monarch and destroying your own reputation.
Moreover, how can this thing between Qi and Chu be worthy of your publicity and praise?
The two gentlemen may have never seen with their own eyes the extremely luxurious, magnificent and thrilling spectacular scenery. Have you, gentlemen, never heard of the Emperor's Shanglin Garden?
Shanglinyuan connects with Cangwu County in the east and reaches the West Pole in the west. There is Danshui flowing through the south of the garden. Ziyuan bush flows in the north of Shangta cocoon.
Dangcheng and Bang originate from and end in the garden. The Jingshui River and the Weishui River pass through the forest garden, flowing in from outside the garden and flowing out from inside the garden. Fengshui, Hao, Liaocheng, and Youcheng flow meanderingly through the garden.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
荡荡乎八川分流，相背异态，东西南北，驰骛往来，出乎椒丘之阙，行乎州淤之浦，径乎桂林之中，过乎泱莽之野，汩乎混流，顺阿而下，赴隘陿之口，触穹石，激堆埼，沸乎暴怒，汹涌彭湃，滭弗宓汩，逼侧泌瀄，横流逆折，转腾潎洌，滂濞沆溉，穹隆云桡，宛氵单胶盭，逾波趋乂，莅莅下濑，批岩冲拥，奔扬滞沛，临坻注壑，瀺灂霣队，沈沈隐隐，砰磅訇礚，潏潏淈々，氵抬潗鼎沸，驰波跳沫，汩氵急漂疾，悠远长怀。
寂漻无声，肆乎永归。然后灏溔潢漾，安翔徐佪，翯乎滈滈，东注大湖，衍溢陂池。
于是蛟龙赤螭，鱼恒鱼瞢渐离，鰅鰫鰬魠禺禺魼鳎，健鳍掉尾，振鳞奋翼，潜处乎深岩。鱼鳖欢声，万物众伙。
明月珠子，的皪江靡，蜀石黄碝，水玉磊砢，磷磷烂烂，采色澔汗，丛积乎其中。
工鸟鹔鹄鸨，鴽鹅属玉，交精旋目，烦鹜庸渠，箴疵卢，群浮乎其上。
浮淫泛滥，随风澹淡，与波摇荡，奄薄水忄者，唼喋菁藻，咀嚼鞭藕。
于是乎崇山矗矗，巃嵸崔巍，深林巨木，崭岩参差。
九嵕■，南山峨峨，岩阤甗锜，崛崎，振溪通谷，蹇产沟渎，谷今呀豁閜，阜陵别隝，崴磈山畏廆，丘陵崛礨，隐辚郁山垒，登降施靡，陂池貏豸。
允溶淫鬻，散涣夷陆，亭皋千里，靡不被筑。揜以绿蕙，被以江离，糅以蘼芜，杂以留夷。布结缕，攒戾莎，揭车衡兰，稿本射干，茈姜蘘荷，持若荪，鲜支黄砾，蒋芧青薠，布濩闳泽，延曼太原，离靡广衍，应风披靡，吐芳扬烈，郁郁菲菲，众香发越，肸蚃布写，晻薆咇茀。
translation: 
Eight mighty rivers flow through Shanglin Garden. The rough water has different shapes, flowing in east, west, north and south directions.
The river flows from the confronting twin peaks with thick trees, flows through Yapo on the island, passes through the osmanthus forest, and crosses the vast grassland.
The rapid river flows down the steep mountain and goes straight to the pass of the mountain gorge. The erosion slapped against the huge rocks and the high slopes of the zigzag river bank made of sand.
The waves are rolling, the waves are splashing, the water is rushing, and the water hits the stone shore with bursts of rumbling sounds. The water is turbulent, and the swirling water waves stirred up are like clouds.
The water flow twists and turns, and the waves in front hit the waves in front and plunge into the deep pool of the canyon. The rushing river water washes away the sand and gravel at the bottom of the river, hitting the stone banks and embankments. The rushing waves stir up bursts of mist.
The water flows from high places into deep ravines and then gradually slows down. The sounds made also became trickier and tinier. Then, the water became deep and vast, causing a loud banging sound. The swells rolled like boiling water in a cauldron.
The running water waves stirred up layers of foam, spinning rapidly and drifting into the distance.
At this time, the vast and silent sky was silent, and the river flowed peacefully, and then flowed into the endless vast waters. The water flow slowly formed some whirlpools, and the vast water surface glowed with white light, flowing eastward into the large lake. When the lake was full, the water gradually overflowed and gathered in the ponds and small lakes beside the lake.
So the dragons in the water, the hornless red turtles, the eel-like body fins, Jianli, the pomfret among catfishes, the pavilions among silver carps, the oysters among giant catfish, the yellow-cheeked oysters, the yellow-striped fish with hairy skin, the salmon among flounder, and the sole among salamanders all straightened their dorsal fins, swayed their tails vigorously, and raised their wings vigorously. The fish and turtles hiding under the rocks in the abyss cheered loudly, and everything gathered together.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
于是乎周览泛观，缜纷轧芴，芒芒恍忽，视之无端，察之无涯。日出东沼，入乎西陂。
其南则隆冬生长，涌水跃波；其兽则庸旄貘犛，沈牛麝麋，赤首圜题，穷奇象犀。
其北则盛夏含冻裂地，涉冰揭河；其兽则麒麟角端，騊駼橐驼，蛩蛩驒騱，驒騠驴骡。 于是乎离宫别馆，弥山跨谷，高廊四注，重坐曲阁，华榱璧榼，辇道纚属，步櫩周流，长途中宿。
夷嵕筑堂，累台增成，岩突洞房。
俯杳眇而无见，仰攀橑而扪天，奔星更于闺闼，宛虹拖于楯轩。
青龙蚴蟉于东箱，象舆婉僤于西清，灵圉燕于闲馆，偓佺之伦暴于南荣，醴泉涌于清室，通川过于中庭。
磐石裖崖，嵚岩倚倾，嵯峨嶪，刻削峥嵘，玫瑰碧琳，珊瑚丛生，珉玉旁唐，玢豳文磷，赤瑕驳荦，杂臿其间，晁采琬琰，和氏出焉。
translation: 
The bright moon and pearls are shining by the river. Jade-like Shu stones, yellow hard stones, and crystal stones are piled together, sparkling like gems, and gathered in the water.
The four kinds of birds, the cockroach, the parrot, the swan, and the bustard, as well as the geese, gulls, chickens, eagles, spinners, pheasants, water chickens, silver carp, partridges, and eagles, are floating in groups on the water, drifting freely in the wind and drifting in and out with the waves. They play among the water plants. Sometimes there is green algae in the mouth, sometimes chewing water chestnut root. The mountains here are majestic and steep, towering into the clouds, and the peaks are of different heights.
Jiujun Mountain is majestic and steep, while Zhongnan Mountain is majestic and steep, with steep and steep peaks.
The hillside is steep and the mountain road is rugged. The streams converged by the huge rocks in the mountains pass through the valleys, forming deep and winding mountain pools and wide and empty gorges.
The hills and slopes in the deep mountains and the islands in the water are all steep and rugged. The mountains are undulating and gradually become flatter down the slopes. The water slowed down and gradually flattened out into land. The land beside the flat water is all as flat as a building.
The garden is covered with green cymbidiums and sweetgrasses everywhere, with weeds and sweetgrasses growing alternately, and zodiacworts growing everywhere. There are thick green sandy grasses.
The rocks at high altitudes are tall and precipitous, and the steep texture of the towering rocks looks like they were carved manually. Roses and emerald corals gather in clusters, and the jade-like minyu rocks are spread over a wide area, majestic and with textures as varied as scales. Red jade, with mottled colors, is scattered randomly among the cliffs. Famous beauties: Juchao Cai, Wanyan and He's Bi all came from Shanglin Garden.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
于是乎卢橘夏孰，黄甘橙楱，楷杷橪柿，亭柰厚朴，梬枣杨梅，樱桃蒲陶，隐夫薁棣，答遝离支，罗乎后宫，列乎北园，贝也丘陵，下平原，扬翠叶，扤紫茎，发红华，垂朱荣，煌煌扈扈，照曜巨野。
沙棠栎槠，华枫枰栌，留落胥邪，仁频并闾，欃檀木兰，豫章女贞，长千仞，大连抱，夸条直畅，实叶葰茂，攒立丛倚，连卷欐佹，崔错癹骫，坑稀閜砢，垂条扶疏，落英幡纚，纷溶萷蔘，猗柅从风，藰莅卉歙，盖象金石之声，管籥之声音。
柴池茈虒，旋还乎后宫，杂袭累辑，被山缘谷，循阪下隰，视之无端，究之亡穷。
于是乎玄猨素雌，蜼玃飞蠝，蛭蜩玃蝚，獑胡豰蛫，栖息乎其间。
translation: 
Various fruits such as tangerine, yellow tangerine, orange, plum, loquat, wild jujube, crabapple, sand fruit, magnolia bark, jujube, bayberry, cherry, grape, Changdi, Tangdi, and litchi are scattered all over the harem, and are planted in order in the North Garden, stretching to the hilly areas and down to the plains. The green leaves are constantly swaying, the purple trunks are swaying, and red flowers are blooming on the ground. The red flowers on the trees are blooming downwards, shining brightly and reflecting the red earth.
Trees such as sand fruit trees, oak trees, oak trees, birch trees, maple trees, ginkgo trees, goldenrod trees, pomegranate trees, coconut trees, betel nut trees, palm trees, sandalwood trees, magnolia trees, camphor trees, and privet trees are thousands of feet tall. They are so big that it takes several people to put their arms around them. The branches and leaves of the tree are lush and spread out, and the branches are covered with huge fruits. The trees stand together in clusters, and their branches are bent, intertwined or facing away from each other. The branches grow in intertwined rows, and the branches caress each other, compete with each other, or support each other to grow. The branches are spread everywhere, and the flying flowers are falling in the wind.
The lush vegetation is dancing gracefully in the wind. The gusts of wind create beautiful sounds like percussion and string and bamboo music.
The trees in the garden are uneven and surround the harem. The canyon on the edge of the mountain is covered with dense trees, covering the mountains and plains. Along the mountains, along the valleys, from the slopes to the rivers and lakes, there are dense trees, and you can't see the edge at a glance.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
长啸哀鸣，翩幡互经，夭蟜枝格，偃蹇杪颠，逾绝梁，腾殊榛，捷垂条，掉希间，牢落陆离，烂温远迁。
若此者数百千处，娱游往来，宫宿馆舍，疱厨不徙，后宫不移，百官备具。
于是乎背秋涉冬，天子校猎。
乘镂象，六玉虯，拖蜺旌，靡云旗，前皮轩，后道游；孙叔奉辔，卫公参乘，扈从横行，出乎四校之中。
translation: 
The detailed examinations are endless. In the park, black male apes, white female apes, long-tailed monkeys, large female monkeys, flying squirrels, leeches, squirrels, spiders, hoes, and shell snakes live and grow in the woods, roaring loudly or whining quietly, jumping up and down with vigorous and agile movements, and playing in the trees. The beasts crossed the broken bridge and jumped over the strange trees. Grab the hanging branches and wander around in the space. They are scattered or gathered, running around and jumping freely.
There are hundreds of places like this in Shanglin Garden.
As autumn turns to winter, the emperor hunts in the paddocks.
The emperor rode in a vehicle decorated with ivory inlays, and drove a carriage drawn by six horses wearing jade ornaments, swaying banners decorated with colorful feathers that looked like neon lights, and waving banners with long ribbons of bears and tigers like clouds. In front of the convoy, there was a driver driving a car covered with tiger skins to clear the way, and behind the tiger-skin car, there was a tourist car as the leader. A person who is good at driving a vehicle will drive the vehicle, and a general who is good at riding will participate in the driving. The emperor's guards marched in horizontal formation.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
鼓严簿，纵猎者，江河为阹，泰山为橹，车骑雷起，殷天动地，先后陆离，离散别追，淫淫裔裔，缘陵流泽，云布雨施。
生貔豹，搏豺狼，手熊罴，足野羊。
蒙鹖苏，绔白虎，被斑文，跨野马，陵三嵕之危，下碛历之坻，径峻赴险，越壑厉水。
推蜚廉，弄解廌，格虾蛤，铤猛氏，羂要褭，射封豕。
箭不苟害，解脰陷脑；弓不虚发，应声而倒。
于是乘舆弭节徘徊，皋翔往来，睨部曲之进退，览将帅之变态。
然后侵淫促节，倏敻远去，流离轻禽，蹴履狡兽，车惠白鹿，捷狡菟。
translation: 
As they marched around the school, the sound of beating drums could be heard from the emperor's ceremonial guards, and the hunters began to run wildly. The hunting ground is bounded by the Yangtze River and the Yellow River, and Mount Tai is the watchtower. The chariots and cavalry started running, the sound was like thunder, shaking the earth and the earth. They dispersed one after another to chase the animals. Along the hills and along the rivers and lakes, the mountains and fields are filled with hunting people, carriages and horses.
Capture wild beasts like leopards alive, fight jackals, catch bears with your hands, and trample wild sheep with your feet.
The warriors wore hats decorated with tail feathers, white tiger skin trousers, and tiger and leopard print leather tops. They rode wild horses and climbed to the tops of the mountains and down to the uneven slopes of the mountains. Don't be afraid of dangers, cross valleys and ford rivers.
They teased Fei Lian, teased the Xie Zhi, killed the ferocious beasts, shrimps and clams, stabbed the Meng clan with short spears, used ropes to tie up the magic horses, and shot the seal pigs with arrows.
The arrow will not be shot casually, it will hit the neck and penetrate the brain. The arrow will not be missed, and the prey will fall down with a sound.
At this time, the emperor was riding in the car and wandering slowly in rhythm, watching the soldiers and servants advance and retreat from a distance, and watching the generals' response to the situation.
Then it gradually approached slowly and gradually, and suddenly moved away. Use nets to cover nimble birds so that they struggle and cannot escape.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
轶赤电，遗光耀，追怪物，出宇宙，弯蕃弱，满白羽，射游枭，栎蜚遽。
择肉而后发，先中而命处，弦矢分，蓺殪仆。
然后扬节而上浮，陵惊风，历骇焱，乘虚亡，与神俱，蔺玄鹤，乱昆鸡，遒孔鸾，促鵕鸃，指翳鸟，捎凤凰，捷鹓雏，揜焦明。
道尽涂殚，回车而还。
消■乎襄羊，降集乎北纮，率乎直指，揜乎反乡，蹶石关，历封峦，过支隹鹊，望露寒，下堂梨，息宜春，西驰宣曲，濯鹢牛首，登龙台，掩细柳，观士大夫之勤略，钧猎者之所得获。
徒车之所■轹，骑之所蹂若，人之所蹈藉，与其穷极倦烋，惮詟伏，不被创刃而死者，它它藉藉，填坑满谷，掩平弥泽。
translation: 
He tramples young animals with his feet, attacks white deer with his chariot, quickly captures cunning and nimble rabbits, is faster than thunder and lightning, and leaves the flash of light behind.
Chasing the beast out of the universe. He drew his famous bow Fanwei, took the divine arrow Bai Yu, and shot at the baboon wandering around, hitting the divine beast and flying away.
First select the fat beast and then release the arrow. First tell the part to be shot. The arrow will leave the string and hit the vital point. The beast will die immediately. Then, the emperor rides on a chariot and holds the banner high, as if he is traveling upstream in the sky, riding the wind to the illusory sky of the universe, and is with the gods in the sky. Black cranes are trampled under his feet, disrupting the ranks of gulls and owls. Chasing Kong Luan, chasing owl and geese, beating down the hawks, striking phoenixes with poles, catching goose chicks, and covering up Jiao Ming.
When the road came to an end, he drove back and walked leisurely, descending from the sky to the northernmost part of the garden.
Then go down to Tangli Palace and rest at Yichun Palace. He rode west towards Xuanqu, held an oar and rowed the crane boat in Niushou Pond. Climb to Longtai Temple, take a rest in Xiliu Temple, watch the hard work and results of scholars and officials, and evenly distribute the harvest from hunting.
Trampled and rolled over by soldiers and vehicles, ravaged by cavalry, trampled by people, those who were exhausted and unable to move due to fear and fear were not beasts killed by swords and sharp edges. They criss-crossed the mountains and fields, filled the pits, filled the valleys, covered the plains, and filled the swamps.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
于是乎游戏懈怠，置酒乎颢天之台，张乐乎胶葛之宇，撞千石之钟，立万石之虡，建翠北之旗，树灵鼍之鼓，奏陶唐氏之舞，听葛天氏之歌，千人倡，万人和，山陵为之震动，川谷为之荡波。
巴、俞、宋、蔡，淮南《干遮》，文成颠歌，族居递奏，金鼓迭起，铿鎗闛鞈，洞心骇耳。
荆、吴、郑、卫之声《韶》、《濩》、《武》、《象》之乐，阴淫案衍之音，鄢、郢缤纷，《激楚》、《结风》，俳优侏儒，狄鞮之倡，所以娱耳目乐心意者，丽靡烂漫于前，靡曼美色于后。
若夫青琴、虙妃之徒，绝殊离俗，妖冶闲都，靓庄刻饰，便嬛繛约，柔桡■■，妩媚纤弱，曳独茧之褕袣，眇阎易以恤削，便姗嫳屑，与世殊服，芬芳沤郁，酷烈淑郁，皓齿粲烂，宜笑的皪，长眉连娟，微睇绵藐，色授魂予，心愉于侧。
于是酒中乐酣，天子芒然而思，似若有亡，曰： 嗟乎，此大奢侈！
translation: 
At this time, the emperor used games to relax his spirit, set up banquets on the high platform of Qian Haotian, placed musical instruments on Liao Kuo's universe, struck the thousand-stone bell, and erected a bell frame to hang the thousand-stone bell. A large flag decorated with green feathers was erected, a large drum made of sheepskin skin was placed, the dance music of Tao Tangshi Yao was played, and the songs of Ge Tianshi were listened to. Thousands of people sang in chorus, tens of thousands of people shouted in unison, the mountains were shaken, and the rivers in the valleys were stirred up into waves.
The music of Bayu Song and Cai, Huainan's "Ganzhe" song, and the Yunnan songs sung by people in Wencheng County are sometimes played together and sometimes alternately.
The sound of gongs and drums rises one after another, and the sound of bells and drums is sonorous and powerful, making an ear-splitting sound.
The songs of Jing, Wu, Zheng, and Wei, the music of "Shao", "Yi", "Wu" and "Xiang" were licentious and unrestrained, and the songs and dances of Yan and Ying of Chu State were mixed. Chu's "Ji", "Chu", "Knot" and "Wind" songs and dances, acrobats and short people, and the dancing girls of the Di Qian tribe, whatever can make the ears and eyes happy, the music plays in the front, and the beautiful dancers dance in the back.
The eyebrows are long and curved, with a slight glimmer of hope. This kind of beauty is really fascinating and captivating. Halfway through the wine, when the music was playing at its most lively, the emperor suddenly felt lost and said as if he had lost something: Oh, what a luxury!


Chunk 15: 
original: 
朕以览听馀闲，无事弃日，顺天道以杀伐，时休息于此，恐后世靡丽，遂往而不返，非所以为继嗣创业垂统也。 于是乎乃解酒罢猎，而命有司曰： 地可垦辟，悉为农郊，以赡氓隶，隤墙填堑，使山泽之民得至焉。
实陂池而勿禁，虚官馆而勿仞。
发仓廪以救贫穷，补不足，恤鳏寡，存孤独。
出德号，省刑罚，改制度，易服色，革正朔，与天下为始。
于是历吉日以斋戒，袭朝服，乘当驾，建华旗，鸣玉鸾，游于六艺之囿，驰骛乎仁义之涂，览观《春秋》之林，射《貍首》，兼《驺虞》，弋玄鹤，舞干戚，戴云罕，揜群雅，悲《伐檀》，乐乐胥，修容乎《礼》园，翱翔乎《书》圃，述《易》道，放怪兽，登明堂，坐清庙，恣群臣，奏得失，四海之内，靡不受获。
于欺之时，天下大说，乡风而听，随流而化，芔然兴道而迁义，刑错而不用，德隆于三皇，功羡于五帝。
若此，故猎乃可喜也。
若夫终日驰骋，劳神苦形，罢车马之用，抏士卒之精，费府库之财，而无德厚之恩，务在独乐，不顾众庶，忘国家之政，贪雉菟之获，则仁者不繇也。
translation: 
Since I had nothing to do, I wasted my time and went hunting in autumn in accordance with the natural seasons. I often come here to rest, worrying that future generations will become extravagant, indulge in pleasure, and get lost without knowing how to return. This is by no means a way to educate future generations to start a business and inherit traditions, so they immediately stopped the banquet, gave up hunting, and ordered the relevant officials to say: All land that can be reclaimed must be cultivated by farmers, so as to support and care for the people. The walls were knocked down and the ditches and rivers were filled up, so that the people who lived in the mountains and swamps had a place to graze and collect firewood.
They raise fish and turtles in the Pi Pond without prohibiting fishing, and they keep their palaces and annexes empty without gathering people.
Distribute grain to the poor, provide food to those who have nothing to eat, provide care for the elderly and orphans, care for the lonely, and issue orders to be kind to the people.
Reduce penalties, reform the system, change uniforms and colors, and reform the calendar so that people all over the country can have a new beginning.
Choose a good time and an auspicious day to fast and bathe, put on the clothes of the emperor, sit in the emperor's chariot, raise the gorgeous flag, ring the jade bell, swim in the garden with the content of the Six Classics, run on the road full of morality, watch and read in the forest garden where one of the six classics, "Spring and Autumn", is used as the rhythm of the princes' shooting ceremony.
At this time, the people all over the world were very happy. They followed the trend and accepted enlightenment. They soon advocated Taoism and became close to benevolence and righteousness. By abolishing the instruments of punishment, the virtues and government will be more prosperous than those of the three emperors, and the achievements will be greater than those of the five emperors.
Hunting like this is a joy!
If you run in the wild all day long, your mental and physical strength will be taxed, your carriage and horses will be worn out, and your horses and soldiers will be exhausted. It drained the treasury of money, but did not bring favor and good governance to the people. They only care about their own enjoyment and ignore the suffering of the people. They forget the important political affairs of the country in order to covet the harvest of pheasants and rabbits. This is definitely not what a benevolent person would do.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
从此观之，齐、楚之事，岂不哀哉！
地方不过千里，而囿居九百，是草木不得垦辟，而民无所食也。夫以诸侯之细，而乐万乘之所侈，仆恐百姓被其尤也。
于是二子愀然改容，超若自失，逡巡避席，曰： 鄙人固陋，不知忌讳，乃今日见教，谨受命矣。
赋奏，天子以为郎。
亡是公言上林广大，山谷水泉万物，及子虚言云梦所有甚众，侈靡多过其实，且非义理所止，故删取其要，归正道而论之。
translation: 
Judging from this incident, isn't the behavior of Qi and Chu very sad?
The land is only a thousand miles long, but the gardens take up nine hundred miles. In this way, the land cannot be cultivated, and the common people have no food to eat. However, the status of the princes is low, but they enjoy a life that even the emperor of a great country considers very luxurious. I worry that the people will be harmed by his mistakes.
After hearing these words, the faces of the two gentlemen, Zixu and Wuyou, changed, as if they had lost something. They took a few steps back, left the seat and said, "I am ignorant and ignorant. I don't know what should be taboo. I have benefited a lot from your teachings today. I have learned a lot."
According to the Fu Cheng memorial, the emperor regarded him as Lang Guan.
The public said that the emperor's Shanglin Garden was vast and vast, with valleys, springs, and all things. He also mentioned that Yunmengze in Chu State had many beautiful scenery. Exaggeration was an exaggeration, and it was not what etiquette and righteousness advocated. Therefore, the key points are extracted and described in the correct way.


