Summary uses chunk [0, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 3]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
廉颇者，赵之良将也。
赵惠文王十六年，廉颇为赵将伐齐，大破之，取阳晋，拜为上卿，以勇气闻於诸侯。
蔺相如者，赵人也，为赵宦者令缪贤舍人。
赵惠文王时，得楚和氏璧。
秦昭王闻之，使人遗赵王书，原以十五城请易璧。
赵王与大将军廉颇诸大臣谋：欲予秦，秦城恐不可得，徒见欺；欲勿予，即患秦兵之来。
计未定，求人可使报秦者，未得。
宦者令缪贤曰： 臣舍人蔺相如可使。
王问： 何以知之？
对曰： 臣尝有罪，窃计欲亡走燕，臣舍人相如止臣，曰： 君何以知燕王？
臣语曰： 臣尝从大王与燕王会境上，燕王私握臣手，曰 原结友 。
以此知之，故欲往。
相如谓臣曰： 夫赵强而燕弱，而君幸於赵王，故燕王欲结於君。
今君乃亡赵走燕，燕畏赵，其势必不敢留君，而束君归赵矣。
君不如肉袒伏斧质请罪，则幸得脱矣。
臣从其计，大王亦幸赦臣。
臣窃以为其人勇士，有智谋，宜可使。
於是王召见，问蔺相如曰： 秦王以十五城请易寡人之璧，可予不？
相如曰： 秦强而赵弱，不可不许。
王曰： 取吾璧，不予我城，奈何？
相如曰： 秦以城求璧而赵不许，曲在赵。赵予璧而秦不予赵城，曲在秦。
均之二策，宁许以负秦曲。 王曰： 谁可使者？
相如曰： 王必无人，臣原奉璧往使。
城入赵而璧留秦；城不入，臣请完璧归赵。
赵王於是遂遣相如奉璧西入秦。
translation: 
Lian Po was an outstanding general of Zhao State.
In the sixteenth year of King Zhao Huiwen, Lian Po led the Zhao army to conquer Qi, defeated the Qi army, captured Yangjin, and was named Shangqing by King Zhao. He was famous among the princes and countries for his bravery in battle.
Lin Xiangru was a native of the State of Zhao and a retainer of the family of the eunuch Ling Muxian of the State of Zhao.
During the reign of King Zhao Huiwen, he obtained the Heshi Bi from Chu State.
When King Zhao of Qin heard about this, he sent a letter to King Zhao, expressing his willingness to exchange fifteen cities for He's Bi.
King Zhao discussed with General Lian Po and his ministers: If he gave the jade to Qin, it would be impossible for Qin's cities to be obtained and they would be deceived in vain; if he didn't give it, he would be afraid that the Qin army would attack Zhao immediately.
The countermeasures were not discussed, and I tried to find an envoy who could be sent to Qin to reply, but I couldn't find one.
The eunuch ordered Miao Xian to say: "My retainer Lin Xiangru can go to Qin as an envoy."
King Zhao asked: How do you know he can do it?
Miao Xian replied: "I have committed a crime, and I secretly planned to flee to Yan State. My retainer Xiangru stopped me and said: How do you know that the King of Yan will definitely take you in?"
I said to him: I followed the king to meet with King Yan on the border. King Yan held my hand in private and said that he was willing to make friends with you.
Therefore, I knew that He could take me in, so I wanted to go to Him.
Xiangru said to me: Zhao is strong and Yan is weak, but you are favored by King Zhao, so King Yan wants to make friends with you.
Now you are fleeing from the State of Zhao to the State of Yan. The State of Yan is afraid of the State of Zhao. In this situation, the King of Yan will not dare to take you in, and will tie you up and send you back to the State of Zhao.
Why don't you take off your shirt, expose your shoulders and back, lie under the axe, and beg the king to punish you, and you may be lucky enough to be pardoned.
The minister listened to his advice, and the king graciously pardoned the minister.
I privately thought that this man was a warrior and resourceful, and it was appropriate to send him as an envoy.
So King Zhao immediately summoned him and asked Lin Xiangru: "The King of Qin asked for fifteen cities in exchange for my He's Bi. Can you give it to him?"
Xiangru said: Qin is strong and Zhao is weak, so we have to agree to it.
King Zhao said: But what if King Qin gets my jade but doesn't give me the city?
Xiangru said: Qin asked for a city in exchange for bi, and if Zhao refused, Zhao would be at a loss; if Zhao gave the bi but Qin did not give Zhao a city, Qin would be at a loss.
After weighing the two countermeasures, I would rather agree to it and let Qin bear the responsibility for the loss. King Zhao said: Who can be sent as an envoy?
Xiangru said: If your Majesty really has no one to send, I would like to hold the precious jade and go as an envoy.
If the city belongs to the State of Zhao, I will leave the jade to the State of Qin; if the city cannot be returned to the State of Zhao, I will definitely bring He's Bi back to the State of Zhao intact.
King Zhao then sent Lin Xiangru to take He's Bi and march westward to Qin.

summary:
summary line 0: Lian Po, a renowned general of Zhao, conquered Qi and captured Yangjin, earning the title of Shangqing. Lin Xiangru, a retainer of eunuch Miao Xian, was sent as an envoy to Qin after King Zhao of Qin offered fifteen cities for the He's Bi jade. Lin Xiangru successfully returned the jade intact to Zhao after King Qin failed to honor the exchange. Later, at the Mianchi meeting, Lin Xiangru forced King Qin to play a fou, maintaining Zhao's dignity. For his efforts, he was named Shangqing, ranking above Lian Po.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
廉颇曰： 我为赵将，有攻城野战之大功，而蔺相如徒以口舌为劳，而位居我上，且相如素贱人，吾羞，不忍为之下。
宣言曰： 我见相如，必辱之。
相如闻，不肯与会。
相如每朝时，常称病，不欲与廉颇争列。
已而相如出，望见廉颇，相如引车避匿。
於是舍人相与谏曰： 臣所以去亲戚而事君者，徒慕君之高义也。
今君与廉颇同列，廉君宣恶言而君畏匿之，恐惧殊甚，且庸人尚羞之，况於将相乎！
臣等不肖，请辞去。
蔺相如固止之，曰： 公之视廉将军孰与秦王？
曰： 不若也。
相如曰： 夫以秦王之威，而相如廷叱之，辱其群臣，相如虽驽，独畏廉将军哉？
顾吾念之，强秦之所以不敢加兵於赵者，徒以吾两人在也。今两虎共斗，其势不俱生。
吾所以为此者，以先国家之急而後私雠也。
廉颇闻之，肉袒负荆，因宾客至蔺相如门谢罪。
曰： 鄙贱之人，不知将军宽之至此也。
卒相与驩，为刎颈之交。
是岁，廉颇东攻齐，破其一军。
居二年，廉颇复伐齐几，拔之。
後三年，廉颇攻魏之防陵、安阳，拔之。
後四年，蔺相如将而攻齐，至平邑而罢。
其明年，赵奢破秦军阏与下。
赵奢者，赵之田部吏也。
收租税而平原君家不肯出租，奢以法治之，杀平原君用事者九人。
平原君怒，将杀奢。
奢因说曰： 君於赵为贵公子，今纵君家而不奉公则法削，法削则国弱，国弱则诸侯加兵，诸侯加兵是无赵也，君安得有此富乎？
以君之贵，奉公如法则上下平，上下平则国强，国强则赵固，而君为贵戚，岂轻於天下邪？
translation: 
Lian Po said: I am a general of the State of Zhao, with great achievements in sieges and field battles. Lin Xiangru only achieved some merit through his eloquence, but his status is higher than mine. Besides, Lin Xiangru is a humble person. I feel ashamed and cannot bear to be below him.
He also threatened: If I meet Lin Xiangru, I will definitely humiliate him.
After hearing this, Xiangru refused to meet him.
Whenever Lin Xiangru went to court, he often used illness as an excuse to hide at home, unwilling to compete with Lian Po for ranking.
Not long after, Xiangru went out, and Lin Xiangru went out in a carriage. He saw Lian Po from a distance, and Lin Xiangru quickly asked someone to turn the car around to avoid it.
So Xiangru's disciples came together to express their admonition, saying: "The reason why we leave our relatives to serve you is because we admire your noble integrity."
Now you and Lian Po have the same official position. Mr. Lian speaks evil words, but you are afraid to hide from him. Your fear is too much. A mediocre person is ashamed, let alone a general!
We people have no talent, please let us say goodbye!
Lin Xiangru resolutely persuaded them to stay and said: Who do you think is more powerful than General Lian or the King of Qin?
He replied: General Lian cannot compare with King Qin.
Xiangru said: With the power of the King of Qin, I dare to scold him in the court and humiliate his ministers. Although I, Lin Xiangru, are incompetent, can I be afraid of General Lian?
But I thought that the reason Qiang Qin did not dare to use troops against Zhao was because of the two of us. Now that the two tigers are fighting, they will inevitably not be able to coexist.
The reason why I was so tolerant was to put the country's emergencies first and my personal grievances behind.
When Lian Po heard these words, he took off his shirt, exposed his upper body, carried a thorn stick on his back, and was led by the guests to Lin Xiangru's door to apologize.
He said: I am a rough and humble person, but I never thought that you, General, are so generous!
The two finally reconciled and became friends through life and death.
This year, Lian Po attacked Qi eastward and defeated one of its troops.
Two years later, Lian Po attacked several cities in Qi State and captured them.
In the next three years, Lian Po attacked Wei's Fangling and Anyang and captured them all.
Four years later, Lin Xiangru led his troops to attack Qi and withdrew his troops when they reached Pingyi.
The next year, Zhao She defeated the Qin army at the foot of Yanyu City.
Zhao She was originally an official in the State of Zhao who collected land rent.
When he was collecting taxes, Pingyuan Jun's family refused to pay. Zhao She punished him according to law and killed nine people in charge of Pingyuan Jun's family.
Lord Pingyuan was furious and wanted to kill Zhao She.
Zhao She took the opportunity to persuade and said: "You are a noble son in the State of Zhao. If you allow your retainers to disobey the government's laws now, the laws will be weakened. If the laws are weakened, the country will be weak. When the country is weak, the princes will send troops to invade. If the princes send troops to invade the Zhao country, it will perish. How can you keep this wealth?"
With your status and honor, being able to abide by the law will make the country fair, and fairness will make the country strong. When the country is strong, the Zhao family's regime will be stable. As a noble relative of the Zhao country, will you be despised by the world?

summary:
summary line 1: Lian Po, resentful of Lin Xiangru's higher rank, threatened to humiliate him. Lin Xiangru avoided conflict, prioritizing national unity over personal grievances. When Lian Po learned of this, he apologized, and the two became close friends. Lian Po later led successful campaigns against Qi and Wei.

Chunk 4: 
original: 
平原君以为贤，言之於王。
王用之治国赋，国赋大平，民富而府库实。
秦伐韩，军於阏与。
王召廉颇而问曰： 可救不？
对曰： 道远险狭，难救。
又召乐乘而问焉，乐乘对如廉颇言。
又召问赵奢，奢对曰： 其道远险狭，譬之犹两鼠斗於穴中，将勇者胜。
王乃令赵奢将，救之。
兵去邯郸三十里，而令军中曰： 有以军事谏者死。
秦军军武安西，秦军鼓譟勒兵，武安屋瓦尽振。
军中候有一人言急救武安，赵奢立斩之。
坚壁，留二十八日不行，复益增垒。
秦间来入，赵奢善食而遣之。
间以报秦将，秦将大喜曰： 夫去国三十里而军不行，乃增垒，阏与非赵地也。
赵奢既已遣秦间，卷甲而趋之，二日一夜至，今善射者去阏与五十里而军。
军垒成，秦人闻之，悉甲而至。
军士许历请以军事谏，赵奢曰： 内之。
许历曰： 秦人不意赵师至此，其来气盛，将军必厚集其阵以待之。
不然，必败。
赵奢曰： 请受令。
许历曰： 请就鈇质之诛。
赵奢曰： 胥後令邯郸。
许历复请谏，曰： 先据北山上者胜，後至者败。
赵奢许诺，即发万人趋之。
秦兵後至，争山不得上，赵奢纵兵击之，大破秦军。
秦军解而走，遂解阏与之围而归。
赵惠文王赐奢号为马服君，以许历为国尉。
赵奢於是与廉颇、蔺相如同位。
後四年，赵惠文王卒，子孝成王立。
translation: 
Lord Pingyuan thought he was very talented and recommended him to King Zhao.
King Zhao appointed him in charge of the country's taxation. The country's taxation was very fair and reasonable, the people lived a prosperous life, and the national treasury was also very full.
Qin attacked South Korea and stationed its troops in Lianyu.
King Zhao summoned Lian Po and asked, "Can we send troops to rescue him?"
Lian Po replied: The road is long, dangerous and narrow, making it difficult to rescue.
King Zhao summoned Le Cheng again to ask about this matter, and Le Cheng's answer was the same as Lian Po's.
Zhao She was summoned again to ask. Zhao She replied: "The road is long and dangerous, and the road is narrow. It's like two mice fighting in a hole. Whoever is braver will win."
King Zhao then sent Zhao She to lead the troops to rescue Yan Yu.
军队离开邯郸三十里，赵奢就在军中下令说： 有谁来为军事进谏的就处以死刑。
The Qin army was stationed to the west of Wu'an. The sound of the Qin army beating drums and shouting for military training shook the roof tiles in Wu'an city.
A scout in Zhao's army asked for urgent help from Wu'an, and Zhao She immediately beheaded him.
Zhao Jun held on to the camp and stayed for twenty-eight days without advancing. Instead, he built more fortresses.
A Qin army spy sneaked into the Zhao army's camp, and Zhao She treated him well with food and drink before sending him back.
The spies reported the situation to the generals of the Qin army. The Qin generals were overjoyed and said: The army stopped advancing thirty miles away from the capital and built additional forts. Yanyu will no longer be owned by Zhao.
After Zhao She dispatched the spies of the Qin army, he ordered the soldiers to take off their armor and quickly march towards Yanyu. It took two days and one night to reach the front line, and ordered the cavalry who were good at shooting to camp at Lilan and Fifuli.
After the military camp was built, the Qin army learned of the situation and immediately rushed to the camp.
A sergeant named Xu Li asked for military advice, and Zhao She said: "Let him come in."
Xu Li said: The people of Qin did not expect that the Zhao army would come here. Now they have come to confront the enemy. Their morale is very high. The general must concentrate his troops and prepare for them.
Otherwise, it will definitely fail.
Zhao She said: Please accept my teachings on military law.
Xu Li said: I request to accept the death penalty.
Zhao She said: I will give the order after I return to Handan.
Xu Li asked for another suggestion, saying: The one who takes the northern hill first will win, and the one who arrives later will fail.
Zhao She agreed and immediately sent 10,000 people to rush up the mountain to the north.
The Qin soldiers arrived later and competed with the Zhao army on Beishan but could not attack it. Zhao She commanded the soldiers to attack fiercely and defeated the Qin army.
The Qin army scattered and fled, so the siege of Yan Yu was lifted and the Zhao army returned home.
King Zhao Huiwen gave Zhao She the title of Ma Fujun and appointed Xu Li as the country's captain.
Zhao She then had the same position as Lian Po and Lin Xiangru.
Four years later, King Zhao Huiwen died and his son King Xiaocheng came to the throne.

summary:
summary line 2: Zhao She, a tax official, gained King Zhao's favor after punishing Lord Pingyuan's family for tax evasion. He was appointed to oversee national taxation, which prospered the people and treasury. During the Qin siege of Yanyu, Zhao She led a daring rescue, defeating the Qin army and earning the title of Ma Fujun.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
七年，秦与赵兵相距长平，时赵奢已死，而蔺相如病笃，赵使廉颇将攻秦，秦数败赵军，赵军固壁不战。
秦数挑战，廉颇不肯。
赵王信秦之间。
秦之间言曰： 秦之所恶，独畏马服君赵奢之子赵括为将耳。
赵王因以括为将，代廉颇。
蔺相如曰： 王以名使括，若胶柱而鼓瑟耳。
括徒能读其父书传，不知合变也。
赵王不听，遂将之。
赵括自少时学兵法，言兵事，以天下莫能当。
尝与其父奢言兵事，奢不能难，然不谓善。
括母问奢其故，奢曰： 兵，死地也，而括易言之。
使赵不将括即已，若必将之，破赵军者必括也。
及括将行，其母上书言於王曰： 括不可使将。
王曰： 何以？
对曰： 始妾事其父，时为将，身所奉饭饮而进食者以十数，所友者以百数，大王及宗室所赏赐者尽以予军吏士大夫，受命之日，不问家事。
今括一旦为将，东向而朝，军吏无敢仰视之者，王所赐金帛，归藏於家，而日视便利田宅可买者买之。
王以为何如其父？
父子异心，原王勿遣。
王曰： 母置之，吾已决矣。
括母因曰： 王终遣之，即有如不称，妾得无随坐乎？
王许诺。
赵括既代廉颇，悉更约束，易置军吏。
秦将白起闻之，纵奇兵，详败走，而绝其粮道，分断其军为二，士卒离心。
四十馀日，军饿，赵括出锐卒自博战，秦军射杀赵括。
括军败，数十万之众遂降秦，秦悉阬之。
赵前後所亡凡四十五万。
明年，秦兵遂围邯郸，岁馀，几不得脱。赖楚、魏诸侯来救，乃得解邯郸之围。
赵王亦以括母先言，竟不诛也。
自邯郸围解五年，而燕用栗腹之谋，曰 赵壮者尽於长平，其孤未壮 ，举兵击赵。
translation: 
In the seventh year of King Zhao Xiaocheng's reign, the Qin army and the Zhao army faced each other in Changping. Zhao She was dead at that time and Lin Xiangru was critically ill. King Zhao sent Lian Po to lead his troops to attack the Qin army. The Qin army defeated the Zhao army several times, but the Zhao army held on to the camp and did not fight.
The Qin army repeatedly challenged. Lian Po ignored it.
King Zhao believed the rumors spread by spies of the Qin army.
A spy of the Qin army said: What the Qin army hates and taboos is that they are afraid that Zhao Kuo, the son of Ma Fujun Zhao She, will become a general.
Therefore, King Zhao appointed Zhao Kuo as his general, replacing Lian Po.
Lin Xiangru said: Your Majesty appointing Zhao Kuo based solely on his reputation is like using glue to seal the tuning posts and then trying to play the harp.
Zhao Kuo can only read the books left by his father and does not know how to be flexible.
King Zhao refused to listen and ordered Zhao Kuo to be his general.
Zhao Kuo has been studying the art of war since he was a child. When it comes to the use of war, he thinks that no one in the world can match him.
He once discussed the use of troops with his father Zhao She. Zhao She couldn't trouble him, but he didn't say he was good either.
Zhao Kuo's mother asked Zhao She what was the reason for this. Zhao She said: Fighting with soldiers is a matter of life and death, but he made it so easy.
It would be fine if the State of Zhao did not use Zhao Kuo as a general, but if he was definitely allowed to be a general, he would definitely be the one who caused the failure of the Zhao army.
When Zhao Kuo was about to leave, his mother wrote to King Zhao saying: Zhao Kuo cannot be made a general.
King Zhao said: Why?
He replied: When I served his father, he was a general at that time. He personally served and served tens of people with food and drink, and he treated hundreds of people as friends. All the rewards given by the king and the royal family were distributed to the military officials and subordinates. From the day he accepted the order, he no longer interfered with family affairs.
Now that Zhao Kuo had suddenly become a general, he faced east to receive his audience. No one in the army dared to look up at him. He took all the gold and silk that the king had rewarded him home and kept them. He also checked for cheap and suitable land and real estate every day, and bought whatever was available.
How does the king think he resembles his father?
The father and son have different minds and hope that the king will not send him to lead the army.
King Zhao said: Just put this matter aside. I have already decided.
Zhao Kuo's mother then said: You must send him to lead the army. If he is incompetent, can I not be implicated?
King Zhao agreed.
After Zhao Kuo replaced Lian Po, he changed all the original rules and regulations and replaced the original military officials.
When Qin general Bai Qi heard about this, he dispatched a surprise force, pretended to be defeated and fled, then cut off the Zhao army's food transport road, split the Zhao army in half, and separated the Zhao soldiers.
After more than forty days, the Zhao army was hungry. Zhao Kuo sent out elite soldiers to fight the Qin army personally. The Qin army shot Zhao Kuo to death.
Zhao Kuo's army was defeated, and hundreds of thousands of troops surrendered to the Qin army. The Qin army buried them all alive.
From the beginning to the end of the Battle of Changping, Zhao State suffered a total of 450,000 losses.
The next year, the Qin army surrounded Handan. The siege lasted for more than a year. Zhao could hardly survive. It was only through the rescue of the Chu and Wei armies that the siege of Handan was lifted.
King Zhao finally did not implicate Zhao Kuo's mother because of her words.
Five years after the siege of Handan was relieved, the Yan State adopted Li Fu's strategy. It was said that all the mature men of the Zhao State died in the Battle of Changping, and their orphans were not yet adults, so the King of Yan sent troops to attack Zhao.

summary:
summary line 3: After King Zhao Huiwen's death, King Xiaocheng ascended. In the Changping campaign, Lian Po initially held defensive positions against Qin. King Xiaocheng replaced him with Zhao Kuo, despite warnings from Lin Xiangru and Zhao Kuo's mother. Zhao Kuo's arrogance led to a disastrous defeat, with 450,000 Zhao soldiers killed. The Qin army later besieged Handan, which was relieved by Chu and Wei forces.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
赵使廉颇将，击，大破燕军於鄗，杀栗腹，遂围燕。
燕割五城请和，乃听之。
赵以尉文封廉颇为信平君，为假相国。
廉颇之免长平归也，失势之时，故客尽去。
及复用为将，客又复至。
廉颇曰： 客退矣！
客曰： 吁！
君何见之晚也？夫天下以市道交，君有势，我则从君，君无势则去，此固其理也，有何怨乎？
居六年，赵使廉颇伐魏之繁阳，拔之。
赵孝成王卒，子悼襄王立，使乐乘代廉颇。
廉颇怒，攻乐乘，乐乘走。
廉颇遂奔魏之大梁。
其明年，赵乃以李牧为将而攻燕，拔武遂、方城。
廉颇居梁久之，魏不能信用。
赵以数困於秦兵，赵王思复得廉颇，廉颇亦思复用於赵。
赵王使使者视廉颇尚可用否。
廉颇之仇郭开多与使者金，令毁之。
赵使者既见廉颇，廉颇为之一饭斗米，肉十斤，被甲上马，以示尚可用。
赵使还报王曰： 廉将军虽老，尚善饭，然与臣坐，顷之三遗矢矣。
赵王以为老，遂不召。
楚闻廉颇在魏，阴使人迎之。
廉颇一为楚将，无功，曰： 我思用赵人。
廉颇卒死于寿春。
李牧者，赵之北边良将也。
常居代雁门，备匈奴。
以便宜置吏，市租皆输入莫府，为士卒费。
日击数牛飨士，习射骑，谨烽火，多间谍，厚遇战士。
为约曰： 匈奴即入盗，急入收保，有敢捕虏者斩。
匈奴每入，烽火谨，辄入收保，不敢战。
如是数岁，亦不亡失。
然匈奴以李牧为怯，虽赵边兵亦以为吾将怯。
translation: 
King Zhao sent Lian Po to lead the troops to counterattack, defeated the Yan army in Hacheng, killed Li Fu, and surrounded the capital of Yan.
Yan State ceded five cities and asked for peace, and King Zhao agreed to a truce.
King Zhao gave Wei Wen the title of Lord Xinping to Lian Po, and appointed him as acting prime minister.
Lian Po was dismissed from his post in Changping and returned home. When he lost power, all his original followers left him.
When he was appointed as a general again, the retainers came back again.
Lian Po said: Gentlemen, please come back! The diners said: Alas!
Why are your opinions so backward?
Everyone in the world makes friends based on market transactions. If you have power, we will follow you. If you no longer have power, we will leave. This is a very common truth. What is there to complain about?
After another six years, the State of Zhao sent Lian Po to attack Fanyang of the State of Wei and captured it.
When King Zhao Xiaocheng passed away, Prince Miaoxiang came to the throne and sent Lecheng to replace Lian Po.
Lian Po was furious and attacked Lecheng, but Lecheng escaped.
Lian Po then fled to Daliang in Wei.
The next year, Zhao State attacked Yan State with Li Mu as general and captured Wu Sui and Fangcheng.
Lian Po had lived in Daliang for a long time, and Wei could not trust him.
Since the State of Zhao was besieged by Qin soldiers many times, the King of Zhao wanted to use Lian Po as a general again, and Lian Po also wanted to be appointed by the State of Zhao again.
King Zhao sent envoys to visit Lian Po to see if he could still be employed.
Lian Po's enemy Guo Kai bribed the envoy with a large amount of money, asking him to speak ill of Lian Po when he came back.
After the Zhao envoy met Lian Po, Lian Po ate a bushel of rice and ten kilograms of meat in front of him. He also put on his armor and mounted his horse, indicating that he could still be employed.
The envoy from the State of Zhao went back and reported to King Zhao: Although General Lian is old and still has a good appetite, he pooped three times in a short period of time while sitting with me.
King Zhao thought Lian Po was old and stopped recalling him.
Chu State heard that Lian Po was in Wei State and secretly sent people to meet him.
Although Lian Po became a general of the Chu State, he had no military exploits. He said: I want to command the soldiers of the Zhao State.
Lian Po finally died in Shouchun.
Li Mu was a good general on the northern border of Zhao State.
He was stationed at Yanmen County in Dai for a long time to guard against the Huns.
He had the power to appoint officials as needed, and all taxes and fees from the cities within the defense area were sent to Li Mu's shogunate to fund the army.
He slaughtered several cows every day to reward the soldiers, taught them archery and horseback riding, carefully guarded the beacon tower, sent more personnel to detect the enemy's situation, and treated the soldiers well.
The rules were drawn up and said: If the Huns invade, they must quickly gather their troops and retreat into the camp to defend themselves. Anyone who dares to capture the enemy will be beheaded.
Every time the Xiongnu invaded, the beacon sent an alarm, and they immediately gathered their troops and retreated into the camp to defend themselves, not daring to go out to fight.
After several years like this, there was no loss of men, horses or supplies.
However, the Xiongnu thought that Li Mu was timid, and even the officers and soldiers guarding the border of Zhao State thought that their general was timid.

summary:
summary line 4: Lian Po later defeated Yan, earning the title of Lord Xinping. After King Xiaocheng's death, Lian Po fled to Wei following a conflict with Lecheng. Zhao attempted to recall him, but a bribed envoy falsely reported his frailty, and he was not reinstated. Lian Po died in Chu.

Chunk 7: 
original: 
赵王让李牧，李牧如故。
赵王怒，召之，使他人代将。
岁馀，匈奴每来，出战。
出战，数不利，失亡多，边不得田畜。
复请李牧。
牧杜门不出，固称疾。
赵王乃复强起使将兵。
牧曰： 王必用臣，臣如前，乃敢奉令。
王许之。
李牧至，如故约。
匈奴数岁无所得。终以为怯。
边士日得赏赐而不用，皆原一战。
於是乃具选车得千三百乘，选骑得万三千匹，百金之士五万人，彀者十万人，悉勒习战。
大纵畜牧，人民满野。
匈奴小入，详北不胜，以数千人委之。
单于闻之，大率众来入。
李牧多为奇陈，张左右翼击之，大破杀匈奴十馀万骑。
灭襜褴，破东胡，降林胡，单于奔走。
其後十馀岁，匈奴不敢近赵边城。
赵悼襄王元年，廉颇既亡入魏，赵使李牧攻燕，拔武遂、方城。
居二年，庞暖破燕军，杀剧辛。
後七年，秦破杀赵将扈辄於武遂，斩首十万。
赵乃以李牧为大将军，击秦军於宜安，大破秦军，走秦将桓齮。
封李牧为武安君。
居三年，秦攻番吾，李牧击破秦军，南距韩、魏。
赵王迁七年，秦使王翦攻赵，赵使李牧、司马尚御之。
秦多与赵王宠臣郭开金，为反间，言李牧、司马尚欲反。
赵王乃使赵葱及齐将颜聚代李牧。
李牧不受命，赵使人微捕得李牧，斩之。废司马尚。
後三月，王翦因急击赵，大破杀赵葱，虏赵王迁及其将颜聚，遂灭赵。
太史公曰：知死必勇，非死者难也，处死者难。
translation: 
King Zhao blamed Li Mu, but Li Mu remained the same.
King Zhao became angry, recalled him, and sent others to lead the army on his behalf.
For more than a year, every time the Huns came to invade, new generals would send troops to fight.
They sent out troops to fight, but suffered repeated defeats, resulting in many losses and casualties. Farming and grazing on the border were impossible.
King Zhao had no choice but to ask Li Mu to serve again.
Li Mu stayed behind closed doors and insisted that he was sick.
King Zhao then forced him to command the troops.
Li Mu said: Your Majesty must use me. I should do what I did before, only then can I dare to obey the order.
King Zhao agreed to his request.
When Li Mu came to the border, he still followed the original regulations.
The Huns had nothing to gain for several years, but they still thought Li Mu was timid.
The officers and soldiers on the border receive rewards every day but have no use for them, so they are willing to fight.
So Li Mu prepared 1,300 carefully selected chariots, 13,000 selected war horses, 50,000 warriors who dared to charge into battle, and 100,000 soldiers who were good at shooting, and organized them all for training and combat.
At the same time, large numbers of livestock were allowed to graze everywhere, and the entire wilderness was filled with people grazing.
When a small group of Huns invaded, Li Mu pretended to be defeated. Li Mu deliberately abandoned thousands of people to the Huns.
When Chanyu heard about this situation, he led a large number of troops to invade.
Li Mu ambushed many strange soldiers, spread out his left and right wings to outflank the enemy and counterattacked, defeating the Xiongnu and killing more than 100,000 horses.
He destroyed Xiu, defeated Donghu, surrendered Linhu, and Shanyu fled.
For more than ten years after that, the Huns no longer dared to approach the border towns of Zhao.
In the first year of King Zhao Daoxiang, after Lian Po had fled to Wei State, Zhao State sent Li Mu to attack Yan State and captured Wu Sui and Fangcheng.
Two years later, Pang Nuan defeated the Yan army and killed Ju Xin.
After another seven years, the Qin army defeated and killed the Zhao general Hu Zou at Wu Sui, and killed 100,000 Zhao soldiers.
The State of Zhao then appointed Li Mu as its general, attacked the Qin army in Yi'an, defeated the Qin army, and drove away the Qin general Huan Jue.
Li Mu was named Lord Wu'an.
Three years later, the Qin army attacked Fanwu. Li Mu defeated the Qin army and moved south to resist South Korea and Wei.
In the seventh year since King Zhao moved, the State of Qin sent Wang Jian to attack the State of Zhao, and the State of Zhao sent Li Mu and Sima Shang to resist the Qin army.
The State of Qin bribed King Zhao's favored minister Guo Kai with a lot of money to let him carry out counterintuitive schemes and spread rumors that Li Mu and Sima Shang were going to rebel.
The king of Zhao sent Zhao Cong and Qi general Yan Ju to replace Li Mu, but Li Mu refused to accept the order.
King Zhao sent people to secretly arrest Li Mu, killed him, and removed Sima Shang from his official position.
Three months later, Wang Jian took the opportunity to attack the State of Zhao, defeated the Zhao army, killed Zhao Cong, captured Zhao Wangqian and his general Yan Ju, and finally destroyed the State of Zhao.
Tai Shigong said: If you know you are about to die and are not afraid, you must be very courageous; death is not difficult, but how to deal with this death is difficult.

summary:
summary line 5: Li Mu, a capable general, defended Zhao's northern border against the Xiongnu. Initially perceived as timid, he later ambushed and defeated the Xiongnu, securing peace for over a decade. He also achieved victories against Qin, earning the title of Lord Wu'an. However, King Zhao, influenced by rumors, executed Li Mu and removed Sima Shang. Three months later, Qin destroyed Zhao.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
廉颇曰： 我为赵将，有攻城野战之大功，而蔺相如徒以口舌为劳，而位居我上，且相如素贱人，吾羞，不忍为之下。
宣言曰： 我见相如，必辱之。
相如闻，不肯与会。
相如每朝时，常称病，不欲与廉颇争列。
已而相如出，望见廉颇，相如引车避匿。
於是舍人相与谏曰： 臣所以去亲戚而事君者，徒慕君之高义也。
今君与廉颇同列，廉君宣恶言而君畏匿之，恐惧殊甚，且庸人尚羞之，况於将相乎！
臣等不肖，请辞去。
蔺相如固止之，曰： 公之视廉将军孰与秦王？
曰： 不若也。
相如曰： 夫以秦王之威，而相如廷叱之，辱其群臣，相如虽驽，独畏廉将军哉？
顾吾念之，强秦之所以不敢加兵於赵者，徒以吾两人在也。今两虎共斗，其势不俱生。
吾所以为此者，以先国家之急而後私雠也。
廉颇闻之，肉袒负荆，因宾客至蔺相如门谢罪。
曰： 鄙贱之人，不知将军宽之至此也。
卒相与驩，为刎颈之交。
是岁，廉颇东攻齐，破其一军。
居二年，廉颇复伐齐几，拔之。
後三年，廉颇攻魏之防陵、安阳，拔之。
後四年，蔺相如将而攻齐，至平邑而罢。
其明年，赵奢破秦军阏与下。
赵奢者，赵之田部吏也。
收租税而平原君家不肯出租，奢以法治之，杀平原君用事者九人。
平原君怒，将杀奢。
奢因说曰： 君於赵为贵公子，今纵君家而不奉公则法削，法削则国弱，国弱则诸侯加兵，诸侯加兵是无赵也，君安得有此富乎？
以君之贵，奉公如法则上下平，上下平则国强，国强则赵固，而君为贵戚，岂轻於天下邪？
translation: 
Lian Po said: I am a general of the State of Zhao, with great achievements in sieges and field battles. Lin Xiangru only achieved some merit through his eloquence, but his status is higher than mine. Besides, Lin Xiangru is a humble person. I feel ashamed and cannot bear to be below him.
He also threatened: If I meet Lin Xiangru, I will definitely humiliate him.
After hearing this, Xiangru refused to meet him.
Whenever Lin Xiangru went to court, he often used illness as an excuse to hide at home, unwilling to compete with Lian Po for ranking.
Not long after, Xiangru went out, and Lin Xiangru went out in a carriage. He saw Lian Po from a distance, and Lin Xiangru quickly asked someone to turn the car around to avoid it.
So Xiangru's disciples came together to express their admonition, saying: "The reason why we leave our relatives to serve you is because we admire your noble integrity."
Now you and Lian Po have the same official position. Mr. Lian speaks evil words, but you are afraid to hide from him. Your fear is too much. A mediocre person is ashamed, let alone a general!
We people have no talent, please let us say goodbye!
Lin Xiangru resolutely persuaded them to stay and said: Who do you think is more powerful than General Lian or the King of Qin?
He replied: General Lian cannot compare with King Qin.
Xiangru said: With the power of the King of Qin, I dare to scold him in the court and humiliate his ministers. Although I, Lin Xiangru, are incompetent, can I be afraid of General Lian?
But I thought that the reason Qiang Qin did not dare to use troops against Zhao was because of the two of us. Now that the two tigers are fighting, they will inevitably not be able to coexist.
The reason why I was so tolerant was to put the country's emergencies first and my personal grievances behind.
When Lian Po heard these words, he took off his shirt, exposed his upper body, carried a thorn stick on his back, and was led by the guests to Lin Xiangru's door to apologize.
He said: I am a rough and humble person, but I never thought that you, General, are so generous!
The two finally reconciled and became friends through life and death.
This year, Lian Po attacked Qi eastward and defeated one of its troops.
Two years later, Lian Po attacked several cities in Qi State and captured them.
In the next three years, Lian Po attacked Wei's Fangling and Anyang and captured them all.
Four years later, Lin Xiangru led his troops to attack Qi and withdrew his troops when they reached Pingyi.
The next year, Zhao She defeated the Qin army at the foot of Yanyu City.
Zhao She was originally an official in the State of Zhao who collected land rent.
When he was collecting taxes, Pingyuan Jun's family refused to pay. Zhao She punished him according to law and killed nine people in charge of Pingyuan Jun's family.
Lord Pingyuan was furious and wanted to kill Zhao She.
Zhao She took the opportunity to persuade and said: "You are a noble son in the State of Zhao. If you allow your retainers to disobey the government's laws now, the laws will be weakened. If the laws are weakened, the country will be weak. When the country is weak, the princes will send troops to invade. If the princes send troops to invade the Zhao country, it will perish. How can you keep this wealth?"
With your status and honor, being able to abide by the law will make the country fair, and fairness will make the country strong. When the country is strong, the Zhao family's regime will be stable. As a noble relative of the Zhao country, will you be despised by the world?

summary:
summary line 6: Tai Shigong praised Lin Xiangru's courage and wisdom, noting his ability to intimidate enemies and later yield to Lian Po, prioritizing the state's interests.

