Chunk 0: 
original: 
夫人宵天地之貌，怀五常之性，聪明精粹，有生之最灵者也。
爪牙不足以供耆欲，趋走不足以避利害，无毛羽以御寒暑，必将役物以为养，用仁智而不恃力，此其所以为贵也。
故不仁爱则不能群，不能群则不胜物，不胜物则养不足。
群而不足，争心将作，上圣卓然先行敬让博爱之德者，众心说而从之。
从之成群，是为君矣；归而往之，是为王矣。
《洪范》曰： 天子作民父母，为天下王。
圣人取类以正名，而谓群为父母，明仁、爱、德、让，王道之本也。
爱待敬而不败，德须威而久立，故制礼以崇敬，作刑以明威也。
圣人既躬明哲之性，必通天地之心，制礼作教，立法设刑，动缘民情，而则天象地。
故曰：先王立礼， 则天之明，因地之性 也。
刑罚威狱，以类天之震曜杀戮也；温慈惠和，以效天之生殖长育也。
《书》云 天秩有礼 ， 天讨有罪 。
故圣人因天秩而制五礼，因天讨而作五刑。
大刑用甲兵，其次用斧钺；中刑用刀锯，其次用钻凿；薄刑用鞭扑。
大者陈诸原野，小者致之市朝，其所繇来者上矣。
自黄帝有涿鹿之战以定火灾，颛顼有共工之陈以定水害。
唐、虞之际，至治之极，犹流共工，放讠雚兜，窜三苗，殛鲧，然后天下服。
夏有甘扈之誓，殷、周以兵定天下矣。
translation: 
Humans imitate the shapes of heaven and earth, possess the five constant natures of benevolence, righteousness, propriety, wisdom, and faith. They are intelligent, sensible, meticulous, and simple. They are the most spiritual among living animals.
Human hands and feet are not enough to provide for hobbies and desires, running is not enough to avoid harm, and there are no furs and feathers to protect against cold and heat. Therefore, humans must use all things to feed themselves. They use wisdom instead of relying on force. This is the reason why humans are noble.
Therefore, if people are not benevolent, they cannot form a group. If they cannot form a group, they cannot defeat external objects. If they cannot defeat external objects, their offerings will not be sufficient.
If a group is formed but the material is still not sufficient, the mentality of competition will arise. The saints of the previous generation deliberately took the lead in emphasizing the morality of respect, humility and charity, and the people were happy and followed them.
When the people who follow them form a group, they become monarchs; when everyone vie to join them, they become kings. "Shang Shu.
"Hong Fan" said: The emperor becomes the parents of the people and the emperor of the world.
The saints choose similar titles to rectify their status and call the king their parents. They understand that benevolence and humility are the foundation of kingship.
Benevolence will not be corrupted if it relies on reverence, and kindness must be majestic to survive for a long time. Therefore, etiquette is formulated to promote reverence, and criminal laws are formulated to show majesty.
Since the sage himself has the character of discernment, he must be familiar with the thoughts of heaven and earth, formulate rituals and education, establish legal systems and set up criminal laws, and always comply with the people's sentiments, so that he can manage the earth according to the laws of heaven.
Therefore, it is said that the previous kings established the ritual system based on the gods from heaven. According to the nature of the earth.
Prisons of punishment and majesty are used to imitate the killing power of God with thunder and lightning; gentleness, kindness, generosity and harmony are used to imitate God's ability to grow and nourish all things.
"Shangshu" says that Heaven rewards polite people according to their rank, and Heaven punishes sinful people.
Therefore, the sages formulated the five rites of good fortune, misfortune, military service, military affairs, and good fortune according to the order of heaven, and formulated the five punishments according to the principle of punishment from heaven.
For large punishments, armor is used, for lighter punishments, axes and irons are used; for medium punishments, knives and saws are used, for lighter punishments, drills are used; for small punishments, whips are used.
Large-scale punishments required the corpses to be displayed in the plains and wilderness, while small-scale punishments required public display in the streets and courts. This situation has a long history.
Since the time of the Yellow Emperor, the Battle of Zhuolu put down the Yandi Rebellion, and during the Zhuanxu Period, the Battle of Gonggong put down the Gonggong Rebellion.
During the reign of Tang Yu, he was able to bring peace to the world by offering sacrifices, and he still exiled Gonggong, banished Huandou, expelled Sanmiao, and killed Gun, and then the world surrendered.
In the Xia Dynasty, Youqi and the Youhu clan fought in Gan, and it was not until the Yin and Zhou dynasties that they used military force to pacify the world.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
天下既定，戢臧干戈，教以文德，而犹立司马之官，设六军之众，因井田而制军赋。
地方一里为井，井十为通，通十为成，成方十里；成十为终，终十为同，同方百里；同十为封，封十为畿，畿方千里。
有税有赋。
税以足食，赋以足兵。
故四井为邑，四邑为丘。
丘，十六井也，有戎马一匹，牛三头。
四丘为甸。
甸，六十四井也，有戎马四匹，兵车一乘，牛十二头，甲士三人，卒七十二人，干戈备具，是谓乘马之法。
一同百里，提封万井，除山川沈斥，城池邑居，园囿术路，三千六百井，定出赋六千四百井，戎马四百匹，兵车百乘，此卿大夫采地之大者也，是谓百乘之家。
一封三百一十六里，提封十万井，定出赋六万四千井，戎马四千匹，兵车千乘，此诸侯之大者也，是谓千乘之国。
天子畿方千里，提封百万井，定出赋六十四万井，戎马四万匹，兵车万乘，故称万乘之主。
戎马、车徒、干戈素具，春振旅以搜，夏拔舍以苗，秋治兵以狝，冬大阅以狩，皆于农隙以讲事焉。
五国为属，属有长；十国为连，连有帅；三十国为卒，卒有正；二百一十四为州，州有牧。
连师比年简车，卒正三年简徒，群牧五载大简车、徒，此先王为国立武足兵之大略也。
周道衰，法度堕，至齐桓公任用管仲，而国富民安。
公问行伯用师之道，管仲曰： 公欲定卒伍，修甲兵，大国亦将修之，而小国设备，则难以速得志矣。
于是乃作内政而寓军令焉，故卒伍定虖里，而军政成虖郊。
translation: 
After the world was stabilized, weapons were collected and educated with etiquette and morality. However, the official position of Sima was also established, six armies were set up, mine fields were divided, and military taxes were formulated.
One mile of land area is divided into one well, ten wells form one link, ten links form one tenth, one tenth has a square of ten miles; ten points form one end, ten ends form one, and one has a hundred miles square; ten together form a seal, ten seals form a ji, and a ji has a thousand miles square.
If you have land to rent, you have to pay for soldiers.
Land is rented to meet food needs, and military taxes are used to meet military needs.
Therefore, four wells form a town, and four towns form a hill.
Qiu is the sixteen wells. There is one military horse and three oxen.
Four hills form a meadow.
There are sixty-four wells in Yidian, four military horses, one military chariot, twelve oxen, three soldiers, seventy-two soldiers, and weapons. The method of cultivating is called horse riding.
There are hundreds of miles together, with a total of ten thousand wells. Excluding mountains, rivers, salty land, water depressions, cities, villages, and gardens and avenues, there are a total of 3,600 wells, 6,400 wells required to pay military taxes, 400 military horses, and 100 military chariots. This is the largest among the official lands of Qing officials, and is called the House of Hundreds of Vehicles.
One letter is 316 miles long, with a total of 100,000 wells, of which 64,000 wells are required to pay military tribute, 4,000 soldiers and horses, and 1,000 chariots. This is the largest among the princes, and is called the Kingdom of Thousand Chariots.
The emperor's royal territory is thousands of miles square, with a million wells in total, 640,000 wells required to pay military tribute, 40,000 soldiers and horses, and 10,000 chariots, so he is called the Lord of Ten Thousand Chariots.
The soldiers and carriage drivers were always well prepared with weapons. They hunted in the spring to reorganize the troops, pulled weeds in the summer to repair the camp, trained and hunted in the autumn, and conducted a grand review of the army during the hunting in the winter. They all gave lectures and training during the farming season.
The five feudal states are one genus, and each vassal has an officer; the ten feudal states are one company, and each company has a commander; the thirty kingdoms are one pawn, and each pawn has an official; the two hundred and ten kingdoms are one state, and each state has a pastoral officer.
Liangong and commander-in-chief review military vehicles every year, junior officers and principal officers review personnel every three years, and Qunmu inspect military vehicles and personnel on a large scale every five years. This was the late king's general policy to build up the country's armed forces and enrich its military strength.
After the kingship of the Zhou Dynasty declined and the legal system was destroyed, it was not until Duke Huan of Qi appointed Guan Zhong that the country became prosperous and the people became stable.
Duke Huan of Qi asked about the method of using troops to achieve hegemony. Guan Zhong replied: If you want to stabilize the army and improve the armaments, big countries will do the same. But if a small country wants to build armaments to control the enemy, it will be difficult to achieve the goal quickly.
Therefore, we relied on the formulation of internal affairs to rectify the military laws and regulations. Therefore, the soldier system was established in the lizhong, and the military affairs were completed in the governance of the feudal towns.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
连其什伍，居处同乐，死生同忧，祸福共之，故夜战则其声相闻，昼战则其日相见，缓急足以相死。
其教已成，外攘夷狄，内尊天子，以安诸夏。
齐桓既没，晋文接之，亦先定其民，作被庐之法，总帅诸侯，迭为盟主。
然其礼已颇僭差，又随时苟合以求欲速之功，故不能充王制。
二伯之后，浸以陵夷，至鲁成公作丘甲，哀公用田赋，搜、狩、治兵、大阅之事皆失其正。
《春秋》书而讥之，以存王道。
于是师旅亟动，百姓罢敝，无伏节死难之谊。
孔子伤焉，曰： 以不教民战，是谓弃之。
故称子路曰： 由也，千乘之国，可使治其赋也。
而子路亦曰： 千乘之国，摄虖大国之间，加之以师旅，因之以饥馑，由也为之，比及三年，可使有勇，且知方也。
治其赋兵教以礼谊之谓也。
春秋之后，灭弱吞小，并为战国，稍增讲武之礼，以为戏乐，用相夸视。
而秦更名角抵，先王之礼没于淫乐中矣。雄桀之士因势辅时，作为权诈以相倾覆，吴有孙武，齐有孙膑，魏有吴起，秦有商鞅，皆擒敌立胜，垂著篇籍。
当此之时，合纵连衡，转相攻伐，代为雌雄。
齐愍以技击强，魏惠以武卒奋，秦昭以锐士胜。
世方争于功利，而驰说者以孙、吴为宗。
时唯孙卿明于王道，而非之曰： 彼孙、吴者，上势利而贵变诈；施于暴乱昏嫚之国，君臣有间，上下离心，政谋不良，故可变而诈也。
夫仁人在上，为下所卬，犹子弟之卫父兄，若手足之扞头目，何可当也？
邻国望我，欢若亲戚，芬若椒兰，顾视其上，犹焚灼仇雠。
translation: 
If ten or five people are connected together, they can live together and share joys, share sorrows and sorrows, and share blessings and misfortunes. Therefore, when fighting at night, they can hear each other's voices, and when fighting during the day, they can see each other. In times of crisis, they are enough to die for each other.
The formation of this kind of education eliminated the intrusion of Yi and Di externally, respected the emperor internally, and stabilized the domestic princes.
After the fall of Duke Huan of Qi, Duke Wen of Jin succeeded him. He also first stabilized his people, formulated the law of being imprisoned, commanded the princes, and succeeded him as the leader of the alliance.
However, his etiquette system has gone beyond the bounds of duty and made many mistakes, and he always acted in discord in order to seek quick success and quick gain, so it cannot be regarded as the legal system of the former king.
After Duke Huan of Qi and Duke Wen of Jin, it gradually declined. By the time of Duke Cheng of Lu, a decree was made to make the hilly areas pay land tax. Duke Ai also assigned a tax to each of the land and family property. Things such as hunting, managing the army, and grand military parades all lost their orthodoxy.
"Spring and Autumn" recorded this and criticized it in order to preserve the royal way.
After that, wars broke out many times, and the people were weak and exhausted, and they lost the sense of sacrifice and sacrifice.
Confucius felt sad about this and said: To fight with untrained people is to abandon them.
Therefore, he praised Zilu and said: Zhong Yuan, when you go to a country with a thousand military chariots, you can put him in charge of the army.
Zilu also said: A country with a thousand chariots is sandwiched between several big countries. It is invaded by armies outside and famine inside. I will govern it. After three years, everyone will have courage and understand the truth.
This means that in managing taxes and the army, etiquette and righteousness must also be taught.
After the Spring and Autumn Period, weak countries were annexed and merged to form the Warring States Period. Some martial arts etiquette was slightly added as a game for fun and to show off to each other.
During the Qin Dynasty, it was renamed "Jiao Da". The etiquette of the previous kings was drowned in unrighteous music. Extraordinary and outstanding people assisted the situation according to the current situation. They used cunning and cunning to compete with each other. Wu had Sun Wu, Qi had Sun Bin, Wei had Wu Qi, and Qin had Shang Yang.
At this time, they joined forces vertically and horizontally, and turned to attack each other, competing for hegemony.
King Min of Qi became strong with the martial arts of Qi, King Hui of Wei worked hard with the soldiers of Wei, and King Zhao of Qin won with the sharp soldiers of Qin.
The secular world is fighting for utilitarianism, and the lobbyists regard Sun Bin and Wu Qi as the objects of respect.
At that time, Sun Qing was the only one who understood the royal way, so he criticized this situation and said: People like Sun Bin and Wu Qi advocate power and wealth and value cunning and cunning; when applied to a country that is violent, chaotic, ignorant and careless, it creates a gap between the monarch and his ministers, disunity between the superiors and subordinates, and poor political planning, so they can be cunning and cunning.
Those who are kind above are admired by those below, just like sons and brothers guarding their father and brothers, hands and feet guarding the brain and eyes. What can be compared with them?
Neighboring countries look at us from a distance, as happy as relatives, as fragrant as pepper orchid. Looking back at their king, it is like seeing fire in the eyes of enemies.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
人情岂肯为其所恶而攻其所好哉？
故以桀攻桀，犹有巧拙；以桀诈尧，若卵投石，夫何幸之有！
《诗》曰： 武王载旆，有虔秉钺，如火烈烈，则莫我敢遏。
言以仁谊绥民者，无敌于天下也。
若齐之技击，得一首则受赐金。
事小敌脆，则偷可用也；事巨敌坚，则焕然离矣。
是亡国之兵也。
魏氏武卒，衣三属之甲，操十二石之弩，负矢五十个，置戈其上，冠胄带剑，嬴三日之粮，日中而趋百里，中试则复其户，利其田宅。
如此，则其地虽广，其税必寡，其气力数年而衰。
是危国之兵也。
秦人，其生民也狭厄，其使民也酷烈。
劫之以势，隐之以厄，狃之以赏庆，道之以刑罚，使其民所以要利于上者，非战无由也。
功赏相长，五甲首而隶五家，是最为有数，故能四世有胜于天下。
然皆干赏蹈利之兵，庸徒鬻卖之道耳，未有安制矜节之理也。
故虽地广兵强，鳃鳃常恐天下之一合而共轧己也。
至乎齐桓、晋文之兵，可谓入其域而有节制矣。然犹未本仁义之统也。
故齐之技击不可以遇魏之武卒，魏之武卒不可以直秦之锐士，秦之锐士不可以当桓、文之节制，桓、文之节制不可以敌汤、武之仁义。
故曰： 善师者不陈，善陈者不战，善战者不败，善败者不亡。
若夫舜修百僚，咎繇作士，命以 蛮夷猾夏，寇贼奸轨 ，而刑无所用，所谓善师不陈者也。
translation: 
Is it human nature to be willing to attack what he likes for the sake of what he hates?
Therefore, using Jie to attack Jie can still be opportunistic; using Jie to deceive Yao is like using an egg to touch a stone, there is no chance of luck!
"Poetry" says: King Wu holds the flag and holds the weapon religiously, as fierce as fire, no one dares to stop us.
It is said that those who appease the people with benevolence and righteousness will be invincible in the world.
For example, Qi State competed in fencing skills, and received a bounty for each head.
If the military scale is small and the enemy is weak, this technique can be used. If the military scale is huge and the enemy is strong, it will be dispersed.
This is the army of a subjugated nation.
The Wei family used armed soldiers, wearing three layers of bell armor, wielding twelve-stone crossbows, carrying fifty arrows, putting their swords on top of their luggage, wearing helmets and carrying swords, carrying three days of food, and traveled hundreds of miles in one day. If he passed the exam, he would be exempted from taxes and given the benefits of land and housing.
If this is the case, then although their country's land is vast, their tax revenue must be very small, and their human strength will weaken after a few years.
This is an army that endangers the country.
The people of Qin were very narrow-minded in their education, but cruel and violent in their service.
He uses power to threaten the people, tortures them with poverty, makes them greedy for rewards, and uses punishment to guide the people, so that his people will be rewarded for their merits and will have no other way out if they don't go to war.
Merits and rewards increase mutually. Those who can get the heads of five people wearing bell armor can enslave five families. This is the most efficient, so it can take four generations to dominate the world.
However, the army is all seeking rewards and pursuing profits. It is a way for mediocre people to do business, but there is no stable system to maintain integrity.
Therefore, even if the land is vast and the army is strong, he is always afraid that the world will work together to suppress him.
As for the armies of Duke Huan of Qi and Duke Wen of Jin, it can be said that they were restrained to a certain extent, but they still did not follow the principles of benevolence and righteousness.
Therefore, Qi's method of stabbing cannot be used to withstand Wei's armed soldiers. Wei's armed soldiers cannot withstand Qin's elite soldiers. Qin's elite soldiers cannot be compared with the temperate troops of Duke Huan of Qi and Duke Wen of Jin. The temperate troops of Duke Huan of Qi and Duke Wen of Jin cannot compete with the benevolent and righteous troops of King Tang of Shang and King Wu of Zhou.
Therefore it is said: Those who are good at commanding an army do not set up formations; those who are good at setting up formations do not fight; those who are good at fighting will not fail; those who are good at losing will not perish.
As for Shun's administration of hundreds of officials, he appointed Jiu Yao as the official in charge of justice and told him that the barbarians were disrupting China and were a group of people who looted and killed and committed crimes, and the criminal law had no effect. This means that those who are good at commanding the army do not need to form formations.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
汤、武征伐，陈师誓众，而放擒桀、纣，所谓善陈不战者也。
齐桓南服强楚，使贡周室，北伐山戎，为燕开路，存亡继绝，功为伯首，所谓善战不败者也。
楚昭王遭阖庐之祸，国灭出亡，父老送之。
王曰： 父老反矣！
何患无君？
父老曰： 有君如是其贤也！
相与从之。
或奔走赴秦，号哭请救，秦人为之出兵。
二国并力，遂走吴师，昭王返国，所谓善败不亡者也。
若秦因四世之胜，据河山之阻，任用白起、王翦豺狼之徒，奋其爪牙，禽猎六国，以并天下。
穷武极诈，士民不附，卒隶之徒，还为敌仇，起云合，果共轧之。
斯为下矣。
凡兵，所以存亡继绝，救乱除害也。
故伊、吕之将，子孙有国，与商、周并。
至于末世，苟任诈力，以快贪残，急城杀人盈城，争地杀人满野。
孙、吴、商、白之徒，皆身诛戮于前，而国灭亡于后。
报应之势，各以类至，其道然矣。
汉兴，高祖躬神武之材，行宽仁之厚，总揽英雄，以诛秦、项。
任萧、曹之文，用良、平之谋，骋陆、郦之辩，明叔孙通之仪，文武相配，大略举焉。
天下既定，踵秦而置材官于郡国，京师有南、北军之屯。
至武帝平百粤，内增七校，外有楼船，皆岁时讲肄，修武备云。
至元帝时，以贡禹议，始罢角抵，而未正治兵振旅之事也。
古人有言： 天生五材，民并用之，废一不可，谁能去兵？
鞭扑不可弛于家，刑罚不可废于国，征伐不可偃于天下。用之有本末，行之有逆顺耳。
translation: 
King Tang of Shang and King Wu of Zhou went on an expedition and arranged their armies for mobilization before the war. Jie and Zhou were captured, which meant that those who were good at arranging formations did not fight.
Duke Huan of Qi conquered the powerful Chu State in the south and made it pay tribute to the Zhou Dynasty. He also attacked the Shanrong in the north and served as a vanguard for the Yan State.
King Zhao of Chu suffered from the disaster of the Lanlu war, the country was destroyed, the king went into exile, and the people came to see him off.
King Chu Zhao said: Go back!
Why worry about not having a monarch?
The people said: How can there be such a wise monarch?
and followed him together.
Some people ran to Qin, crying and asking for help, and Qin sent troops for them.
The two countries worked together to drive away the Wu army, and King Zhao of Chu returned to Chu. This means that those who are good at failure will not perish.
For example, the Qin State relied on the victory of the fourth generation to occupy the dangerous locations of the Yellow River and the mountains. It used wolves like Bai Qi and Wang Jian and their followers to conquer the six kingdoms and annex the world.
After exhausting force and treachery, neither the sergeants nor the people surrendered. The soldiers who served became slaves and became enemies, rising like strong winds, gathering like clouds, and finally overthrowing it together.
This is the most base strategy of using troops.
The army is used to resurrect a destroyed country, to reconnect the cutoff descendants, to save troubles and eradicate scourges.
Therefore, the descendants of generals like Yi Yin and Lu Wang had their own countries, and they shared the rise and fall of the Shang and Zhou dynasties.
In their last generation, they used cunning techniques at will, took pleasure in greed and cruelty, and filled the city with murder for the fight for the city, and filled the wilderness with the murder for the fight for the land.
Sun Bin, Wu Qi, Shang Yang, Bai Qi and others were all killed first, and their countries perished later.
The trend of retribution comes according to their categories, and this is their fate.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, Gaozu himself was endowed with divine power, behaved generously and kindly, led heroes and heroines, and killed King Qin and Xiang Yu.
Adopt Xiao He and Cao Shen's literary governance, use Zhang Liang and Chen Ping's strategies, give full play to the eloquence of Lu Mai and Li Sheng, show the etiquette of Shusun Tong, and cooperate with each other in civil and military ways, and the general policy is complete.
After the world was stabilized, officials were set up in prefectures and counties according to the Qin State, and the northern and southern armies were stationed in the capital.
When Emperor Wu conquered Baiyue, seven more schools were established inside, and warships were built outside. They taught drills every season every year, and the armaments were managed.
In the reign of Emperor Yuan, according to Gong Yu's suggestion, the game of jiaodian was abolished, but there was no correct strategy for managing the army and reviving military morale.
The ancients once said: There are five natures in nature: metal, wood, water, fire, and earth. Human beings use them all. It is impossible to remove any of them. Who can remove the army?
When governing a family, whipping cannot be abandoned, when governing a country, punishment cannot be abolished, and when conquests cannot be eliminated from the world, when using them, one must distinguish the root from the bottom, and when implementing them, there must be adversity and smoothness.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
孔子曰： 工欲善其事，必先利其器。
文德者，帝王之利器；威武者，文德之辅助也。
夫文之所加者深，则武之所服者大；德之所施者博，则威之所制者广。
三代之盛，至于刑错兵寝者，其本末有序，帝王之极功也。
昔周之法，建三典以刑邦国，诘四方：一曰，刑新邦用轻典；二曰，刑平邦用中典；三曰，刑乱邦用重典。
五刑：墨罪五百，劓罪五百，宫罪五百，刖罪五百，杀罪五百，所谓刑平邦用中典者也。
凡杀人者踣诸市，墨者使守门，劓者使守关，宫者使守内，刖者使守囿，完者使守积。
其奴，男子入于罪隶，女子入舂槁。
凡有爵者，与七十者，与未者，皆不为奴。
周道既衰，穆王眊荒，命甫侯度时作刑，以诘四方。
黑罚之属千，劓罚之属千，髌罚之属五百，宫罚之属三百，大辟之罚其属二百。
五刑之属三千，盖多于平邦中典五百章，所谓刑乱邦用重典者也。
春秋之时，王道浸坏，教化不行，子产相郑而铸刑书。
晋叔向非之曰： 昔先王议事以制，不为刑辟。
惧民之有争心也，犹不可禁御，是故闲之以谊，纠之以政，行之以礼，守之以信，奉之以仁；制为禄位以劝其从，严断刑罚以威其淫。
惧其未也，故诲之以忠，竦之以行，教之以务，使之以和，临之以敬，莅之以强，断之以刚。
犹求圣哲之上，明察之官，忠信之长，慈惠之师。
民于是乎可任使也，而不生祸乱。
translation: 
Confucius said: If a craftsman wants to do things well, he must first make his tools sharp.
Wende is the sharp weapon of the emperor; power is the auxiliary of Wende.
If the influence of etiquette and music is deep, then force can make more people obey; if the scope of morality is wide, then the area controlled by prestige will be large.
The three generations were so strong that they reached the point where the army was stopped by punishment. They were not in order. This was the ultimate achievement of the emperor.
In the laws of the previous Zhou Dynasty, three categories of criminal laws, light, medium and heavy, were established to regulate the country and punish various ethnic groups: one is to punish new countries with light laws; the other is to punish peaceful and conservative countries with medium laws; the third is to punish disorderly countries with heavy laws.
Among the five punishments, there are 500 kinds of black punishment, 500 kinds of torture, 500 kinds of castration, 500 kinds of mutilation, and 500 kinds of death penalty. These are the so-called medium punishments used by the state to punish peace and prosperity.
Those who committed murder were beheaded in the market. Those who were tortured were asked to guard the city gates. Those who were tortured were asked to guard the gates. Those who were tortured were asked to guard the palaces. Those who were cut off were asked to guard the gardens. Those who had been shaved off after the punishment were asked to guard the accumulated supplies.
Among those slaves, the men were brought into the government as slaves, and the women were taken into the government to work as laborers in pounding rice and cooking.
Anyone with a title, as well as children over seventy years old and those who have not yet lost their teeth at seven years old, are not allowed to be slaves in the government.
After the decline of the Zhou Dynasty, King Mu became angry and indulged, and asked Fuhou to formulate criminal laws according to the times to punish the world.
There are one thousand clauses for the punishment of ink punishment, one thousand clauses for the punishment of shackles, five hundred clauses for the punishment of hip punishment, three hundred clauses for the punishment of castration, and two hundred clauses for the punishment of death.
There are a total of 3,000 items for the five punishments, which are more than the 500 items for the medium punishment in peaceful countries. The pursuit is the so-called heavy punishment for countries that control unrest.
During the Spring and Autumn Period, the royal way was gradually destroyed, and political and religious customs were not popularized. When Zichan was the Prime Minister of Zheng, he cast criminal laws on the tripod.
Uncle Xiang of Jin Dynasty accused him and said: In the past, the king first discussed the circumstances of the crime and then determined the crime.
We do not formulate criminal laws because we are afraid that people will have fighting thoughts, so we still cannot prohibit and defend them, so we use morality to prevent them, decrees to supervise, etiquette to demonstrate, integrity to maintain integrity, and benevolence to educate; we enact official and salary status to encourage them to obey, and severely sentence criminals to make them afraid of indulgence.
I am afraid that I will not achieve the goal, so I teach them with loyalty, reward them according to their behavior, teach them with current affairs, use them gently, face them seriously, monitor them with strong force, and sentence them decisively.
In this way, we should also seek princes with extraordinary moral intelligence, officials with insight, loyal and trustworthy elders, and teachers who are kind and kind.
In this way, the people can obey the orders and there will be no disasters or disturbances.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
民知有辟，则不忌于上，并有争心，以征于书，而侥幸以成之，弗可为矣。
夏有乱政而作禹刑，商有乱政而作汤刑，周有乱政而作九刑。
三辟之兴，皆叔世也。
今吾子相郑国，制参辟，铸刑书，将以靖民，不亦难乎！
《诗》曰： 仪式刑文王之德，日靖四方。 又曰： 仪刑文王，万邦作孚。 如是，何辟之有？
民知争端矣，将弃礼而征于书。
锥刀之末，将尽争之，乱狱滋丰，货赂并行。
终子之世，郑其败虖！
子产报曰： 若吾子之言，侨不材，不能及子孙，吾以救世也。
偷薄之政，自是滋矣。
孔子伤之，曰： 导之以德，齐之以礼，有耻且格；导之以政，齐之以刑，民免而无耻。 礼乐不兴，则刑罚不中；刑罚不中，则民无所错手足。
孟氏使阳肤为士师，问于曾子，亦曰： 上失其道，民散久矣。
如得其情，则哀矜而勿喜。
陵夷至于战国，韩任申子，秦用商鞅，连相坐之法，造参夷之诛；增加肉刑、大辟，有凿颠、抽胁、镬亨之刑。
至于秦始皇，兼吞战国，遂毁先王之法，灭礼谊之官，专任刑罚，躬操文墨，昼断狱，夜理书，自程决事日县石之一。
而奸邪并生，赭衣塞路，囹圄成市，天下愁怨，溃而叛之。
汉兴，高祖初入关，约法三章曰： 杀人者死，伤人及盗抵罪。
蠲削烦苛，兆民大说。
其后四夷未附，兵革未息，三章之法不足以御奸，于是相国萧何攈摭秦法，取其宜于时者，作律九章。
当孝惠、高后时，百姓新免毒蠚，人欲长幼养老。
萧、曹为相，填以无为，从民之欲而不扰乱，是以衣食滋殖，刑罚用稀。
及孝文即位，躬修玄默，劝趣农桑，减省租赋。
而将相皆旧功臣，少文多质，惩恶亡秦之政，论议务在宽厚，耻言人之过失。
化行天下，告讦之俗易。
吏安其官，民乐其业，畜积岁增，户口浸息。
风流笃厚，禁罔疏阔。
选张释之为廷尉，罪疑者予民，是以刑罚大省，至于断狱四百，有刑错之风。
即位十三年齐太仓令淳于公有罪当刑，诏狱逮系长安。
淳于公无男，有五女，当行会逮，骂其女曰： 生子不生男，缓急非有益！
其少女缇萦，自伤悲泣，乃随其父至长安，上书曰： 妾父为吏，齐中皆称其廉平，今坐法当刑。
translation: 
If the people know that there are criminal laws, they will not be afraid of their superiors. If they want to argue, they will seek proof in the criminal code. If they are lucky enough to evade the criminal laws, they will not be able to govern.
The Xia Dynasty established the Yu punishment for those who violated government orders, the Shang Dynasty established the Tang punishment for those who violated government orders, and the Zhou Dynasty established the Nine punishments for those who violated government orders.
The rise of the three generations of criminal law occurred at the end of each generation.
Now that you are governing the state of Zheng, it will be very difficult for you to refer to the criminal laws of the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties and cast the criminal laws on the tripod to govern the people!
"Poetry" says: According to King Wen's practice of teaching with virtue, then there will be peace in all directions every day. It also says: If the punishment is like King Wen, then all nations will obey in good faith. In this case, why make criminal laws?
When the people know about the disputes, they will give up etiquette and justice and go to the criminal documents for proof.
Trying to fight for every little thing like the tip of a cone will make the cases of confusion more numerous, and bribery will occur simultaneously.
I am afraid that the state of Zheng will decline while you are alive!
Zichan wrote back and said: According to what you said, Gongsun Qiao has no talent and cannot consider his descendants. I only use this to save the present generation.
Frivolous politics started to spread from here.
Confucius felt sad about this, and said: Use morality to induce them, use rituals to rectify them, and the people will not only have a sense of integrity, but also have people's hearts submissive; use decrees to induce them, use punishments to rectify them, and the people will only be temporarily exempted from sins, but they will not have a sense of shame. If the system of rituals and music does not rise, punishments will not be appropriate; if punishments are not appropriate, the people will not even know where to bind their hands and feet.
Meng appointed Yangfu as a military officer, and he asked Zengzi for advice. Zengzi replied: If the people in high positions fail to regulate things, the people will have long since abandoned their moral principles.
If you can find out the criminal's true feelings, you should show sympathy and mercy instead of being proud of yourself.
The decline of kingship lasted until the Warring States Period. Korea appointed Shen Buhai and Qin appointed Shang Yang. They implemented the law that if one person commits a crime, others will be punished at the same time, and a law was created to kill three tribes; corporal punishment and large-scale subjects were added, including the criminal law of gouging, beating, and cooking.
When Qin Shihuang arrived, he annexed all the countries in the war, abolished the laws of the previous emperors, eliminated the official positions of etiquette and justice, exclusively used punishment, personally wrote documents, tried lawsuits during the day, and processed documents at night.
But evil and dishonest people appeared, criminals crowded the roads, prisons were as numerous as markets, and everyone in the world was filled with sorrow and resentment, and rebelled against Qin one after another.
After the rise of the Han Dynasty, Gaozu first entered Guanzhong and restricted it with three laws, saying: Those who kill should be sentenced to death, and those who harm others and steal should be compensated for their crimes.
Hundreds of millions of people are very happy to be exempted from numerous and harsh criminal laws.
After that, the ethnic minorities from all over the world did not surrender, the war did not stop, and the three laws were not enough to prevent evil people, so the Prime Minister Xiao He collected the laws of the Qin Dynasty, selected the ones that were suitable for the time, and formulated the Nine Chapters of Law.
By the time of Emperor Xiaohui and Queen Gao, the people had just been freed from the poison of war, and everyone wanted to raise children and serve the elderly.
Xiao He and Cao Shen were appointed prime ministers, and they used inaction strategies to calm the people and obeyed their requests without disturbing them. As a result, the people had abundant food and clothing and few punishments were used.
When Emperor Xiaowen came to the throne, he personally practiced a quiet and inactive politics, encouraged people to farm and weave, and exempted and exempted land rents and military taxes.
Moreover, his generals and ministers are all former heroes, less gorgeous and more simple. They use the politics of Qin's demise as a lesson. They must be lenient in judgments and judgments, and it is shameful to discuss the faults of others.
Enlightenment became popular all over the world, and the custom of revealing people's privacy changed.
Officials are content with their duties, people are happy to produce, accumulation increases year by year, and the number of people gradually increases.
Customs and education are sincere and pure, and laws and regulations are simple.
Zhang Shizhi was selected as Tingwei, and those who had doubts and were difficult to convict were punished according to the people's support, so the punishment was greatly reduced. As a result, only 400 people were convicted throughout the year, creating a trend of shelving the criminal law.
Thirteen years after Emperor Xiaowen reigned, Taicang of Qi State ordered Chun Yugong to be sentenced for his crimes, and he was ordered to arrest and transport him to Chang'an.
Chunyu Gong had no sons but five daughters. When he was about to be arrested, he scolded his daughters and said: "Giving birth to a child without a boy is useless at a critical moment!"
His youngest daughter, Tiying, was sad and weeping alone, so she went to Chang'an with her father and wrote to the emperor: My father is an official, and everyone in the Qi State praises him for his integrity and fairness. Now his crimes should be punished.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
妾伤夫死者不可复生，刑者不可复属，虽后欲改过自新，其道亡繇也。
妾愿没入为官婢，以赎父刑罪，使得自新。
书奏天子，天子怜悲其意，遂下令曰： 制诏御史：盖闻有虞氏之时，画衣冠、异章服以为戮，而民弗犯，何治之至也！
今法有肉刑三，而奸不止，其咎安在？
非乃朕德之薄而教不明与？
吾甚自愧。
故夫训道不纯而愚民陷焉，《诗》曰： 恺弟君子，民之父母。
今人有过，教未施而刑已加焉，或欲改行为善，而道亡繇至，朕甚怜之。
夫刑至断支休，刻肌肤，终身不息，何其刑之痛而不德也！
岂为民父母之意哉！
其除肉刑，有以易之；及令罪人各以轻重，不亡逃，有年而免。
具为令。
丞相张仓、御史大夫冯敬奏言： 肉刑所以禁奸，所由来者久矣。
陛下下明诏，怜万民之一有过被刑者终身不息，及罪人欲改行为善而道亡繇至，于盛德，臣等所不及也。
臣谨议请定律曰：诸当完者，完为城旦舂；当黥者，髡钳为城旦舂；当劓者，笞三百；当斩左止者，笞五百；当斩右止，及杀人先自告，及吏坐受赇枉法，守县官财物而即盗之，已论命复有笞罪者，皆弃市。
罪人狱已决，完为城旦舂，满三岁为鬼薪、白粲。
鬼薪、白粲一岁，为隶臣妾。
隶臣妾一岁，免为庶人。
隶臣妾满二岁，为司寇。
司寇一岁，及作如司寇二岁，皆免为庶人。
其亡逃及有罪耐以上，不用此令。
前令之刑城旦舂岁而非禁锢者，完为城旦舂岁数以免。
translation: 
I mourn that those who have died cannot be resurrected, and those who have been executed cannot recover. Even if they want to correct their mistakes and start a new life in the future, there is no way out.
I am willing to be taken into the government as a slave, so as to redeem my father's punishment and enable him to start a new life.
When the letter reached the emperor, the emperor felt sorry for her and ordered: Censor Zhizhao: I once heard that when the Yu family existed, uniforms with different levels of clothing and hats painted with different pictures and texts were used as a symbol of punishment, but the people did not commit crimes. How peaceful it is!
Now there are three types of corporal punishment in the criminal law, but the evil has not stopped. Where is the fault?
Could it be that my morality is shallow and my education is not clear?
I'm so ashamed.
Because the teachings and guidance are not correct, the ignorant people fall into sin. "Poetry" says: A gentleman who enjoys harmony and simplicity is the parents of the people.
Nowadays, people have sins, and criminal laws have been added before education. Some people want to correct their behavior and do good deeds, but there is no way to get there. I pity them very much.
The punishment is such that a person's limbs are cut off, his skin is carved with a knife, and he is unable to grow or recover for the rest of his life. How painful and immoral this kind of punishment is!
Is it consistent with the meaning of being the parents of the people?
I order that corporal punishment be abolished and replaced; criminals are now ordered to be classified according to their severity, and those who do not flee will be exempted from civilian status after their years of service.
The above serves as a rule.
Prime Minister Zhang Cang and Imperial Censor Feng Jing reported: "Corporeal punishment has been used to suppress evil for a long time."
Your Majesty issued a wise edict, pity the people who once made mistakes and were punished, and suffered all their lives. When the sinners want to correct their behavior and do good deeds, but there is no way to get there, such a great kindness cannot be compared with the ministers and others.
The ministers and others cautiously suggested that the criminal law should be confirmed as follows: all those who should be sentenced to the end of the sentence, the end of the sentence should be changed to the punishment of Chengdan and torture; those who should be punished with tattoos, the penalty of shaving their hair and having their necks tied with iron rings should be changed to the punishment of Chengdan and torture; those who should be punished should be beaten with bamboo boards for three hundred Those whose left foot should be chopped off should be beaten five hundred with a bamboo board; those whose right foot should be chopped off, and those who surrendered first after killing someone, plus officials who committed the crime of accepting bribes and breaking the law, guarding government property and stealing it themselves, and those who have been convicted and committed the crime of flogging, will be punished by abandoning the market.
The criminal's case has been decided. After serving his sentence, he will be changed to serve the punishment of guarding the city gate during the day and the punishment of beating. After three years, he will be changed to the punishment of ghost salary and white can.
Those who have served the Guixin Baican sentence for one year will be changed to serving the sentence of being a minister or being a concubine.
After one year of serving as a minister or concubine, they will be exempted from crime and become a commoner.
After two years of serving as a minister or a concubine, they will be changed to serve as a criminal.
Those who have served one year of being punished for being a criminal, and those who have been serving a sentence similar to being a criminal for two years will be exempted from crime for the people.
Among them, those who are on the run and those who have committed serious crimes do not apply to this law.
Those who served the punishment of Chengdu and torture before this decree but were not imprisoned will be exempted from the penalty in the same way as if they served the sentence of Chengdu and torture after completing their sentences.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
臣昧死请。
制曰： 可。
是后，外有轻刑之名，内实杀人。
斩右止者又当死。
斩左止者笞五百，当劓者笞三百，率多死。
景帝元年，下诏曰： 加笞与重罪无异，幸而不死，不可为人。
其定律：笞五百曰三百，笞三百曰二百。
狱尚不全。
至中六年，又下诏曰： 加笞者，或至死而笞未毕，朕甚怜之。
其减笞三百曰二百，笞二百曰一百。
又曰： 笞者，所以教之也，其定箠令。
丞相刘舍、御史大夫卫绾请： 笞者，箠长五尺，其本大一寸，其竹也，末薄半寸，皆平其节。
当笞者，笞臀。
毋得更人，毕一罪乃更人。
自是笞者得全，然酷吏犹以为威。
死刑既重，而生刑又轻，民易犯之。
及至孝武即位，外事四夷之功，内盛耳目之好，征发烦数，百姓贫耗，穷民犯法，酷吏击断，奸轨不胜。
于是招进张汤、赵禹之属，条定法令，作见知故纵、监临部主之法，缓深故之罪，急纵出之诛。
其后奸猾巧法，转相比况，禁罔浸密。
律、令凡三百五十九章，大辟四百九条，千八百八十二事，死罪决事比万三千四百七十二事。
文书盈于几阁，典者不能遍睹。
是以郡国承用者驳，或罪同而论异。
奸吏因缘为市，所欲活则傅生议，所欲陷则予死比，议者咸冤伤之。
宣帝自在闾阎而知其若此。
translation: 
I risked my life to ask for instructions.
The emperor issued an edict saying: Yes.
From then on, he had a reputation of being lightly punished externally, but actually he was killing people internally.
The person who cuts off his right foot will be punished by death.
The criminal who had his left foot cut off was beaten with a bamboo board five hundred times, and the criminal who was serving his sentence was beaten with a bamboo board three hundred times. Most of the prisoners were beaten to death.
In the first year of Emperor Jing's reign, the emperor issued an order saying: There is no difference between flogging and death penalty. Those who are lucky enough to survive cannot take care of themselves.
The determined criminal law should be as follows: five hundred floggings should be changed to three hundred, and three hundred floggings should be changed to two hundred.
In this way, the criminal still cannot save his life.
In the sixth year of Emperor Jing's reign, he issued another order: "Some of those who were sentenced to additional punishments died without finishing their punishments. I feel pity for them."
Three hundred floggings are reduced to two hundred, and two hundred floggings are reduced to one hundred.
He also said: The bamboo boards were used to teach them and to determine the laws on the instruments of execution.
Prime Minister Liu She and Yushi doctor Wei Wan asked for instructions: The bamboo board and staff are five feet long, the trunk is one inch, and the end of the bamboo is half an inch thick. The bamboo joints are all cut flat.
The key to being flogged. Hips.
The executioner must not be changed, and the executioner must be changed only after punishing a criminal.
From then on, those who were flogged were spared, but the cruel officials still used the punishment as a threat.
Since the death penalty is too severe and the life punishment is too light, people will easily break the law.
When Emperor Xiaowu came to the throne, he pursued the merits of conquering the barbarians externally, and pursued sensual desires internally. He frequently recruited and used people's manpower and materials. The people were severely depleted, the poor broke the law, the cruel officials had the power to impose sentences, and there were still more people who committed evil crimes.
So Zhang Tang and Zhao Yu were recruited, and the laws were determined one by one, and the law was made to not report people when they knew they had committed crimes, but to convict the head of the department who was responsible for on-the-spot supervision. He relaxed the harsh law enforcement of officials, and immediately killed the officials who released the prisoners.
From then on, evil and cunning officials took advantage of the loopholes in the law and compared each other, and the laws gradually became stricter.
There are a total of 359 articles in the law, 409 articles on death penalty, and 1,882 details. Compared with the old law, the number of sentences for capital crimes is 13,472 articles.
Documents fill several bookshelves, and not all important documents can be seen.
Therefore, the prefectures and states accepted and used contradictory laws, and people with the same crime were sentenced to different sentences.
The traitor takes advantage of the opportunity to make a deal. If he wants a person to live, he will attach a comment that will make him alive. If he wants to frame someone, he will attach a capital crime case to constitute a capital crime.
Everyone who discussed this felt wronged and grieved.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
及即尊位，廷史路温舒上疏，言秦有十失，其一尚存，治狱之吏是也。语在《温舒传》。
上深愍焉，乃下诏曰： 间者吏用法，巧文浸深，是朕之不德也。
夫决狱不当，使有罪兴邪，不辜蒙戮，父子悲恨，朕甚伤之。
今遣廷史与郡鞠狱，任轻禄薄，其为置廷平，秩六百石，员四人。
其务平之，以称朕意。
于是选于定国为廷尉，求明察宽恕黄霸等以为廷平，季秋后请谳。
时上常幸宣室，斋居而决事，狱刑号为平矣。
时涿郡太守郑昌上疏言： 圣王置谏争之臣者，非以崇德，防逸豫之生也；立法明刑者，非以为治，救衰乱之起也。
今明主躬垂明听，虽不置廷平，狱将自正；若开后嗣，不若删定律令。
律令一定，愚民知所避，奸吏无所弄矣。
今不正其本，而置廷平以理其末也，政衰听怠，则廷平将招权而为乱首矣。
宣帝未及修正。
至元帝初立，乃下诏曰： 夫法令者，所以抑暴扶弱，欲其难犯而易避也。
今律、令烦多而不约，自典文者不能分明，而欲罗元元之不逮，斯岂刑中之意哉！
其议律、令可蠲除轻减者，条奏，唯在便安万姓而已。
至成帝河平中，复下诏曰： 《甫刑》云 五刑之属三千，大辟之罚其属二百 ，今大辟之刑千有余条，律、令烦多，百有余万言，奇请它比，日以益滋，自明习者不知所由，欲以晓喻众庶，不亦难乎！
于以罗元元之民，夭绝亡辜，岂不哀哉！
其与中二千石、二千石、博士及明习律、令者议减死刑及可蠲除约省者，令较然易知，条奏。
《书》不云乎？ 惟刑之恤哉！
其审核之，务准古法，朕将尽心览焉。
有司无仲山父将明之材，不能因时广宣主恩，建立明制。为一代之法，而徒钩摭微细，毛举数事，以塞诏而已。
是以大议不立，遂以至今。
议者或曰，法难数变，此庸人不达，疑塞治道，圣智之所常患者也。
故略举汉兴以来，法令稍定而合古便今者。
汉兴之初，虽有约法三章，网漏吞舟之鱼。然其大辟，尚有夷三族之令。
translation: 
Emperor Xuan knew this was the case when he was among the people. When he ascended the throne, Tingshi Lu Wenshu wrote a letter saying that the Qin Dynasty had ten kinds of faults, and one of them was preserved, that is, the officials who dealt with criminals. What he said is in "The Biography of Wen Shu".
Emperor Xuan was deeply saddened by this and issued an order: "Recently, officials have been using the law to make the sentences heavier and heavier. This is my fault."
The verdict was inappropriate, causing guilty people to have evil thoughts, and innocent people to be killed instead. Father and son grieve and hate each other. I am very sad about this.
Now the court historian is sent to interrogate the prisoners together with the county. The task is light and the salary is small. Tingping is now set up, with an official salary of 600 dan and four personnel.
You must be treated fairly to satisfy me.
So he selected Yu Dingguo as Tingwei, and Huang Ba and others who asked for forgiveness from Mingcha were appointed Tingping. In the third month of autumn, they went to the court to discuss the crime.
At that time, the emperor often went to Xuanshi Palace, lived there, fasted and handled cases. The judicial and criminal laws were known to be fair.
At that time, Zheng Chang, the governor of Zhuo County, wrote in a memorial: A wise king appoints ministers who can speak out and advise, not to promote saintliness, but to prevent a happy life; to establish a legal system and make clear punishments, not for peace, but to save the decline and turmoil and revive them.
Now that the wise Lord hears the case in person, even if there is no court, the lawsuit will naturally be judged fairly; if it is to create future generations, it is better to delete and confirm the decree.
Once the law is established, the people will know what to avoid, and evil officials will not be able to play with the law.
Now instead of correcting the foundation of the law, we set up the end of the law to govern Tingping. If political decline and governance are lax, then Tingping will seize power and become the culprit of the turmoil.
Emperor Xuan did not have time to revise and correct it.
As soon as Emperor Yuan was established as emperor, he issued an order: "Laws are used to suppress rape and support the weak. They hope that it will be difficult for people to violate it and easy to avoid."
Nowadays, the laws are complicated and not concise. Those who are in charge of the legal regulations cannot distinguish them clearly, but they want to use them to control civilians who have no knowledge. Is this the proper meaning of criminal law?
He was ordered to discuss the parts of the laws and regulations that could be exempted and mitigated, and to report them one by one, just to make it convenient and stable for the people.
During the reign of Emperor Cheng in Heping, he also went down to Shao and said: "Fuxing" said that there are 3,000 items for the five punishments and 200 items for the death penalty. Now there are more than 1,000 items for the death penalty. The laws are complicated and have more than one million words. In addition to the legal text, additional cases are cited to judge cases, and the number is increasing day by day. People who were originally studying them don't know their origins. Isn't it difficult to understand and enlighten the masses!
Isn't it sad to use it to control kind-hearted people and cause innocent people to perish without knowing their faults?
Orders Zhong Erqianshi, Erqianshi, doctors and people who are familiar with the law to discuss the commutation and exemption of death penalty and the omitted regulations, make them clear and easy to understand, and write them in separate articles.
Doesn’t it say so in the Book? You should be worried about criminal law!
To review and verify, it must be based on ancient laws, and I will do my best to review them.
However, there are no people in the government who are as discerning as Zhongshanfu. They cannot seize the opportunity to widely publicize the Lord's kindness and establish a sage system as the law of the generation. Instead, they only seek trivial things and list matters as small as a hair as a way to deal with Shao Ling.
Therefore, the emperor's theory was not established until now.
Some people who discussed it said that it is difficult for laws to be changed many times. This is because mediocre people do not understand that doubts block the way of governance, which is a common worry for smart people.
Therefore, we will briefly list the legal provisions that have been slightly more certain since the establishment of the Han Dynasty and are in line with ancient law for the convenience of contemporary times.
In the early days of the establishment of the Han Dynasty, even though there were three laws restricting them, they were still as omitted as if they missed the outline of a fish that could swallow a boat. However, during the Great Piercing Punishment, there was still a law to exterminate the three tribes.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
令曰： 当三族者，皆先黥，劓，斩左右止，笞杀之，枭其首，菹其骨肉于市。
其诽谤詈诅者，又先断舌。
故谓之具五刑。
彭越、韩信之属皆受此诛。
至高后元年，乃除三族罪、袄言令。
孝文二年，又诏丞相、太尉、御史： 法者，治之正，所以禁暴而卫善人也。
今犯法者已论，而使无罪之父、母、妻、子、同产坐之及收，朕甚弗取。
其议。
左、右丞相周勃、陈平奏言： 父、母、妻、子、同产相坐及收，所以累其心，使重犯法也。
收之之道，所由来久矣。
臣之愚计，以为如其故便。
文帝复曰： 朕闻之，法正则民悫，罪当则民从。
且夫牧民而道之以善者，吏也；既不能道，又以不正之法罪之，是法反害于民，为暴者也。
朕夫见其便，宜熟计之。
平、勃乃曰： 陛下幸加大惠于天下，使有罪不收，无罪不相坐，甚盛德，臣等所不及也。
臣等谨奉诏，尽除收律、相坐法。
其后，新垣平谋为逆，复行三族之诛。
由是言之，风俗移易，人性相近而习相远，信矣。
夫以孝文之仁，平、勃之知，犹有过刑谬论如此甚也，而况庸材溺于末流者乎？
《周官》有五听、八议、三刺、三宥、三赦之法。
五听：一曰辞听，二曰色听，三曰气听，四曰耳听，五曰目听。
八议：一曰议亲，二曰议故，三曰议贤，四曰议能，五曰议功，六曰议贵，七曰议勤，八曰议宾。
三刺：一曰讯群臣，二曰讯群吏，三曰讯万民。
三宥：一曰弗识，二曰过失，三曰遗忘。
translation: 
The decree states: Anyone who kills any of the three tribes must first stab the face with a knife and then apply ink on the face, cut off the nose, chop off the left and right feet, beat him to death with a bamboo board, cut off his head and hang it on a tree, and chop his bones into meat paste in the market.
Among them, anyone who slanders or curses will have his tongue cut off first.
So this is called having the five punishments.
Peng Yue and Han Xin were all killed in this way.
In the first year of Gaohou, the crime and punishment of destroying the three clans and the evil words were exempted.
In the second year of Emperor Xiaowen's reign, he ordered the Prime Minister, Taiwei, and Yushi: "The law is the guarantee for governing the world. Use it to prohibit cruelty and protect kind people."
Now that the criminals have been sentenced, I think it is undesirable for the innocent parents, wives, and children to be punished together.
Discuss it.
The left and right prime ministers Zhou Bo and Chen Ping reported: Convicting and arresting his parents, wife, children, and brothers from the same mother together is to severely punish his thoughts and make it difficult for him to break the law.
The method of arresting them has been practiced for a long time.
Regarding the foolish plan of the ministers, I think it is better to remain as before.
Emperor Wen also said: I have heard that if the law is correct, the people will be cautious, and if the punishment is appropriate, the people will obey.
It is the officials who govern the people and guide them with kindness. If they cannot guide them, they use unfair criminal laws to punish them. This is criminal law, but it harms the people and becomes violent.
I don't see the convenience of it, you should consider it carefully.
Chen Ping and Zhou Bocai said: Your Majesty is fortunate to extend great kindness to the world, so that the guilty will not be arrested and the innocent will not be implicated and punished. Such a magnificent moral conduct cannot be matched by the ministers.
The ministers carefully followed the edict and completely abolished the arrest law and the continuous sitting law.
After that, Niiguan Ping conspired to re-use the punishment of killing the three clans.
Therefore, it is said that when customs change, people's temperaments will be similar but customs will be very different. This is indeed the case.
With the kindness of Emperor Xiaowen and the wisdom of Chen Ping and Zhou Bo, there are still such huge wrongful punishments and ridiculous discussions, not to mention those mediocre people who are addicted to bad habits?
"Zhou Guan" has five hearings, eight discussions, three thorns, three pardons, and three pardons.
Five listening: One is to listen to words, the second is to observe facial expressions, the third is to observe breath, the fourth is to detect hearing, and the fifth is to detect vision.
Eight discussions: The first is the king's relatives within five generations, if guilty, the penalty will be reduced; the second is the king's past, the penalty will be reduced if the guilty, the third is the virtuous people, the penalty can be reduced, the fourth is the skilled people, the penalty can be considered reduced The fifth category is people with meritorious service, whose punishment can be reduced or reduced; the sixth category is those with high title, whose punishment can be reduced if they are found guilty; the seventh category, who are hard-working for state affairs, their punishment can be reduced if they are found guilty; the eighth category, who are descendants of the previous dynasty, whose guilty sentence can be reduced or reduced.
Three thorns: The first is to ask the officials, the second is to ask the officials, and the third is to ask the people.
Three excuses: one is imprudent, the other is unintentional, and the third is forgetfulness.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
三赦：一曰幼弱，二曰老眊，三曰蠢愚。
凡囚， 上罪梏而桎，中罪梏桎，下罪梏；王之同族，有爵者桎，以待弊。
高皇帝七年，制诏御史： 狱之疑者，吏或不敢决，有罪者久而不论，无罪者久系不决。
自今以来，县道官狱疑者，各谳所属二千石官，二千石官以其罪名当报。
所不能决者，皆移廷尉，廷尉亦当报之。
廷尉所不能决，谨具为奏，傅所当比律、令以闻。
上恩如此，吏犹不能奉宣。
故孝景中五年复下诏曰： 诸狱疑，虽文致于法而于人心不厌者，辄谳之。
其后狱吏复避微文，遂其愚心。
至后元年，又下诏曰： 狱，重事也。
人有愚智，官有上下。
狱疑者谳，有令谳者已报谳而后不当，谳者不为失。
自此之后，狱刑益详，近于五听三宥之意。
三年复下诏曰： 高年老长，人所尊敬也；鳏、寡不属逮者，人所哀怜也。
其著令：年八十以上，八岁以下，及孕者未乳，师、朱儒当鞠系者，颂系之。
至孝宣元康四年，又下诏曰： 朕念夫耆老之人，发齿堕落，血气既衰，亦无逆乱之心，今或罗于文法，执于囹圄，不得终其年命，朕甚怜之。
自今以来，诸年八十非诬告、杀伤人，它皆勿坐。
至成帝鸿嘉元年，定令： 年未满七岁，贼斗杀人及犯殊死者，上请廷尉以闻，得减死。
合于三赦幼弱、老眊之人。
此皆法令稍近古而便民者也。
translation: 
Three amnesties: the first is for young children, the second is for the elderly, and the third is for those born with dementia.
All prisoners were handcuffed on both hands and feet for major crimes, hands and feet for medium crimes, and hands for minor crimes. The king's kinsmen had their hands cuffed and those with noble titles cuffed their feet, waiting for the verdict.
In the seventh year of Emperor Gao's reign, he issued an edict to the censor: If there are doubts about the lawsuit, some officials will not dare to judge, the guilty will not be convicted for a long time, and the innocent will not be sentenced for a long time.
From now on, if there are any doubts about the lawsuits in the county or road, they will report to their respective 2,000 stone officials for trial and conviction. The 2,000 stone officials will report the crime committed by the prisoner and the sentence.
Those who could not be sentenced were handed over to the Tingwei, and the Tingwei also reported the results of the sentences.
If the court officer cannot decide, please report it carefully and carefully, and let me know the laws and regulations that should be consulted.
The emperor's kindness is so good, but the officials still can't act accordingly.
Therefore, in the fifth year of Emperor Xiaojing's reign, he issued a new order: All kinds of doubtful lawsuits, even if the person is convicted of a crime through dance and literary tricks, but people are dissatisfied, they should be reviewed and reviewed immediately.
After that, judicial officials began to avoid the details of the law to achieve their own stupid intentions.
In the first year of Hou, another order was issued saying: Lawsuits are a major national event.
People are divided into stupid and wise people, and officials are divided into superior and inferior officials.
If there is doubt in the lawsuit and the person is convicted, if the person who ordered the trial and convicted has already presented the charges and later found that it was inappropriate, the person who convicted him shall not be guilty of negligence.
From then on, the criminal law became more detailed and had a similar meaning to the five hearings and three excuses.
Three years later, another order was issued: Elders and elders should be respected by everyone; widows and widowers who have no support should be pitied by people.
An order should be issued: Women aged over eighty and under eight, as well as pregnant women who have not yet given birth, musicians, and dwarfs should be interrogated and arrested without torture instruments.
In the fourth year of Emperor Xiaoxuan's reign in Yuankang, he issued another edict: I miss the elderly. Their hair and teeth have fallen out, their vitality has weakened, and they no longer have the desire to be violent and rebellious. Now there are elderly people who have fallen into unwarranted crimes and are locked up in jails, where they will not be able to live a good life. I feel pity for them.
From now on, if you are not a criminal who falsely accuses or kills someone over the age of 80, you will not be sentenced to any other punishment.
In the first year of Emperor Cheng Hongjia's reign, a decree was enacted: Those under the age of seven, who fight, kill, or commit the crime of beheading, should ask the imperial officer for instructions and let them know that they can avoid death.
It is consistent with the three amnesties for the young, weak, and the elderly.
These are laws that are similar to those in ancient times and are beneficial to the people if they are slightly formulated.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
孔子曰： 如有王者，必世而后仁；善人为国百年，可以胜残去杀矣。
言圣王承衰拨乱而起，被民以德教，变而化之，必世然后仁道成焉；至于善人，不入于室，然犹百年胜残去杀矣。
此为国者之程式也。
今汉道至盛，历世二百余载，考自昭、宣、元、成、哀、平六世之间，断狱殊死，率岁千余口而一人，耐罪上至右止，三倍有余。
古人有言： 满堂而饮酒，有一人乡隅而悲泣，则一堂皆为之不乐。
王者之于天下，譬犹一堂之上也，故一人不得其平，为之凄怆于心。
今郡、国被刑而死者岁以万数，天下狱二千余所，其冤死者多少相覆，狱不减一人，此和气所以未洽者也。
原狱刑所以蕃若此者，礼教不立，刑法不明，民多贫穷，豪杰务私，奸不辄得，狱不平之所致也。
《书》云 伯夷降典，哲民惟刑 ，言制礼以止刑，犹堤之防溢水也。
今堤防凌迟，礼制未立；死刑过制，生刑易犯；饥寒并至，穷斯滥溢；豪杰擅私，为之囊橐，奸有所隐，则狃而浸广：此刑之所以蕃也。
孔子曰： 古之知法者能省刑，本也；今之知法者不失有罪，末矣。
又曰： 今之听狱者，求所以杀之；古之听狱者，求所以生之。
与其杀不辜，宁失有罪。
今之狱吏，上下相驱，以刻为明，深者获功名，平者多患害。
谚曰： 鬻棺者欲岁之疫。
非憎人欲杀之，利在于人死也。
今治狱吏欲陷害人，亦犹此矣。
凡此五疾，狱刑所以尤多者也。
translation: 
Confucius said: If there is a person who calls himself a king, he must go through thirty years of benevolent government; if a moral person governs the country for a hundred years, he can defeat evil without killing.
This means that when a wise king rises in an era of decline and chaos, he imparts moral education to people, changes and inspires them, and it must take thirty years before a benevolent government can be formed; as for moral people, although they are not included in the list of saints, it still takes hundreds of years to defeat evil and refrain from killing.
This is the way to govern a country.
Nowadays, the fortunes of the Han Dynasty are extremely prosperous. After more than two hundred years, during the six generations from Emperor Zhao, Emperor Xuan, Emperor Yuan, Emperor Cheng, Emperor Ai to Emperor Ping, only one person in a thousand people was sentenced to death every year. From the punishment of resistance to crime to the right foot beheading, there were three people in a thousand people.
Ancient people once said: If a room full of people is drinking and one person cries against the wall, then everyone in the room will be unhappy about it.
The emperor treats the world as if he is in a house, so as long as one person does not receive equality, he will feel sad for it.
Nowadays, more than 10,000 people die of punishment every year in the county, and there are more than 2,000 prisons in the world. Among them, those who died unjustly are covered by the superiors and the inferiors. There is no fewer people in the prisons. This is the reason why a harmonious atmosphere has not been formed.
The reason why there are so many lawsuits and criminal laws is that the etiquette and morality education has not been established, the criminal law is unclear, most of the people are poor and impoverished, people with status and power seek personal gain, evil people cannot be immediately forced to prosecute, and the consequences of unfair judgments.
"Shangshu" says that Boyi promulgated codes and tried cases according to criminal laws, which means that creating ritual laws to prevent punishment is like using embankments to prevent water from flowing out.
Now the dike has been destroyed and etiquette has not been established; the death penalty has exceeded the limit, and the death penalty is easy to violate; hunger and cold have come together, and poverty has spread everywhere; heroes are seeking personal gain in vain, just like those who use bags to carry things. Once the evil is concealed, the habit of crime will gradually expand, which is why there are so many punishments.
Confucius said: In ancient times, people who understood the law were able to reduce punishments, which was the foundation; now, people who understand the criminal law do not let the guilty go, which is the end.
He also said: People who are trying lawsuits today are pursuing how to kill criminals; those who are trying lawsuits in ancient times are pursuing how to keep people alive.
It is better to spare the guilty than to kill the innocent.
Nowadays, judicial officials chase people up and down, treating ruthlessness as wisdom. Powerful people get credit and reputation, while fair people have more troubles.
The proverb says: The man who sells coffins hopes for a sick year.
It's not that he hates and wants to kill people, it's that he wants to profit from dead people.
Now the officials who are in charge of the judiciary want to frame people, and it is the same way.
There are a total of these five disadvantages, which are the reasons why there are so many lawsuits.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
自建武、永平，民亦新免兵革之祸，人有乐生之虑，与高、惠之间同，而政在抑强扶弱，朝无威福之臣，邑无豪杰之侠。
以口率计，断狱少于成、哀之间什八，可谓清矣。
然而未能称意比隆于古者，以其疾未尽除，而刑本不正。
善乎！孙卿之论刑也，曰： 世俗之为说者，以为治古者无肉刑，有象刑、墨鲸之属，菲履赭衣而不纯，是不然矣。
以为治古，则人莫触罪邪，岂独无肉刑哉，亦不待象刑矣。
以为人或触罪矣，而直轻其刑，是杀人者不死，而伤人者不刑也。
罪至重而刑至轻，民无所畏，乱莫大焉，凡制刑之本，将以禁暴恶，且惩其未也。
杀人者不死，伤人者不刑，是惠暴而宽恶也。
故象刑非生于治古，方起于乱今也。
凡爵列官职，赏庆刑罚，皆以类相从者也。
一物失称，乱之端也。
德不称位，能不称官，赏不当功，刑不当罪，不祥莫大焉。
夫征暴诛悖，治之威也。
杀人者死，伤人者刑，是百王之所同也，未有知其所由来者也。
故治则刑重，乱则刑轻，犯治之罪故重，犯乱之罪故轻也。
《书》云 刑罚世重世轻 ，此之谓也。
所谓 象刑惟明 者，言象天道而作刑，安有菲屦赭衣者哉？
孙卿之言既然，又因俗说而论之曰： 禹承尧、舜之后，自以德衰而制肉刑，汤、武顺而行之者，以俗薄于唐、虞故也。
今汉承衰周暴秦极敝之流，俗已薄于三代，而行尧、舜之刑，是犹以鞿而御駻突，违救时之宜矣。
translation: 
Since Jianwu and Yongping, the people have just been freed from the scourge of war. People have considered living and working in peace and contentment, which is the same as the situation between Gao Hou and Hui Emperor. However, politics is about suppressing violence and supporting the weak. There are no arrogant ministers in the court, and there are no heroes in the countryside.
Based on the general statistics of the population, the number of cases tried was eight-tenths less than that between Emperor Cheng and Emperor Ai, which can be said to be very peaceful.
However, compared with the Zhan Dynasty, it is still not satisfactory. This is because all the shortcomings have not been eliminated, and the criminal law is not correct at all.
Xunzi’s comments on punishment are so good! He said: People who write books and commentaries in the secular world believe that there was no corporal punishment in ancient times when the world was peaceful, and there were punishments such as torture and tattooing, which were replaced by wearing straw sandals and cloth without collars. In fact, this is not the case.
It is believed that in peaceful ancient times, people did not violate criminal laws. Not only were there no corporal punishments, but there was no need for elephant punishments.
It is believed that if people commit crimes, their punishments should be reduced directly. This means that those who kill people will not be sentenced to death, and those who hurt people will not be punished.
If the crime is extremely serious and the punishment is extremely light, and people are not afraid of punishment, then the disaster cannot be greater than this. Generally speaking, the original intention of enacting criminal laws is to prohibit violent evil and prevent it from happening before it happens.
Those who kill are not put to death, and those who hurt others are not punished. This is kindness to the violent and forgiveness to the evil.
Therefore, Xiang Xing did not originate in the peaceful ancient times, but just emerged in the current turbulent times.
All titles, official positions, rewards and punishments are given according to the level of merit and demerit.
When something loses its balance, it becomes the beginning of chaos.
Nothing is more unlucky than when morality does not match the title, talent does not match the official position, reward does not match the merit, and punishment does not match the crime.
Cruel conquests and killing of rebels are the power to govern the world.
Those who kill will be put to death, and those who hurt others will be punished. This is recognized by emperors of all ages. No one knows when it started.
Therefore, if there is peace in the world, the punishment will be heavy, and if the world is in chaos, the punishment will be light. If someone violates the law in a time of peace, the crime will be heavier, and if he violates the law in a time of turmoil, the crime will be light.
"Shangshu" says that punishments become heavier or lighter with the times, which illustrates this truth.
You will understand that what is said about "making elephant punishments" means that punishments are made according to the laws of heaven. How can there be such things as straw shoes and ocher clothes?
Xunzi's remarks were like this, and he commented based on secular remarks: Xia Yu succeeded Yao and Shun, and he thought that morality was declining, so he instituted corporal punishment. King Tang and Wu of Shang followed and implemented it because the social customs were less mellow than those of Tang and Yu.
Now the Han Dynasty has inherited the extreme abuses of the declining Zhou Dynasty and the brutal Qin Dynasty, and the social customs have become weaker than those of the three generations. However, the punishments of Yao and Shun are used like reins to control fierce horses, which violates the appropriate policy of saving the era.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
且除肉刑者，本欲以全民也，今去髡钳一等，转而入于大辟，以死罔民，失本惠矣。
故死者岁以万数，刑重之所致也。
至乎穿之盗，忿怒伤人，男女淫佚，吏为奸臧，若此之恶，髡钳之罚又不足以惩也。
故刑者岁十万数，民既不畏，又曾不耻，刑轻之所生也。
故俗之能吏，公以杀盗为威，专杀者胜任，奉法者不治，乱名伤制，不可胜条。
是以罔密而奸不塞，刑蕃而民愈嫚。
必世而未仁，百年而不胜残，诚以礼乐阙而刑不正也。
岂宜惟思所以清原正本之论，删定律、令，二百章，以应大辟。
其余罪次，于古当生，今触死者，皆可募行肉刑。
及伤人与盗，吏受赇枉法，男女淫乱，皆复古刑，为三千章。
诋欺文致微细之法，悉蠲除。
如此，则刑可畏而禁易避，吏不专杀，法无二门，轻重当罪，民命得全，合刑罚之中，殷天人之和，顺稽古之制，成时雍之化。
成、康刑错，虽未可致，孝文断狱，庶几可及。《诗》云 宜民宜人，受禄于天 。
《书》曰 立功立事，可以永年 。
言为政而宜于民者，功成事立，则受天禄而永年命，所谓 一人有庆，万民赖之 者也。
translation: 
Moreover, the original intention of abolishing corporal punishment was to protect the people. Now the penalty of forceps is reduced and transferred to the death penalty. Using death to control the people has lost the original intention of grace.
Therefore, tens of thousands of people die every year, which is the result of excessively harsh criminal laws.
As for robbers who climb over walls, angry and hurtful people, men and women who are sexually immoral, and officials who are evil and corrupt, such evils cannot be punished by punishments such as forceps.
Therefore, more than 100,000 people are punished every year, but the people are neither afraid nor ashamed. This is the result of the punishment being too light.
Therefore, officials who are regarded as capable by the world openly use killing thieves as a sign of dignity, those who are dedicated to execution are regarded as qualified for official positions, and those who abide by the law are regarded as unable to govern. It is impossible to list them one by one if they disrupt the reputation and harm the system.
Therefore, the legal framework is strict but the evil is not under control. The punishments were many, but the people were more contemptuous.
Thirty years have passed but benevolent government has not been implemented, and a hundred years have passed but cruelty has not been defeated. This is really due to the lack of rituals and music and the irregular punishment.
In fact, we should think about cleaning up the source, correcting the basic arguments, deleting the final laws, and writing 200 chapters to deal with the death penalty.
For the rest of the crime levels, those who should live alive according to ancient times can now serve corporal punishment if they violate the death penalty.
As for stealing and harming others, officials accepting bribes, corruption and bending the law, and sexual immorality between men and women, ancient punishments were restored and three thousand chapters were formulated.
False accusations, deceit, and trivial criminal laws are exempted.
If this is the case, then punishment can make people fearful and easily avoid confinement, officials will not kill people arbitrarily, the law will be the same, the severity will be consistent with the crime, the lives of the people will be preserved, the punishment will be consistent, it will comply with the harmony between heaven and man, and it will be consistent with the ancient system, forming a harmonious atmosphere.
Although the penalties and punishments of the Cheng and Kang eras could not be reached, the state of handling lawsuits during the reign of Emperor Xiaowen could almost catch up. The Book of Songs says that if you obey the people, you will be blessed by heaven.
"Shangshu" says that if you establish meritorious deeds, you will be immortal.
It means that if a person in government can comply with the will of the people and has achieved great achievements, he will inherit the blessings of heaven and become immortal. This is the so-called "one person is blessed and ten thousand people depend on him".


