Summary uses chunk [0, 0, 1, 2, 3, 5, 0]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
自古受命帝王及继体守文之君，非独内德茂也，盖亦有外戚之助焉。
夏之兴也以涂山，而桀之放也以末喜。
殷之兴也以有娀ō，纣之杀也嬖妲己。
周之兴也以姜原及大任，而幽王之禽也淫于褒姒。
故《易》基《干》《坤》，《诗》始《关雎》，《书》美厘降，《春秋》讥不亲迎。
夫妇之际，人道之大伦也。
礼之用，唯婚姻为兢兢。
夫乐调而四时和，阴阳之变，万物之统也。可不慎与？
人能弘道，无如命何。
甚哉，妃匹之爱，君不能得之于臣，父不能得之于子，况卑下乎！
既欢合矣，或不能成子姓；能成子姓矣，或不能要其终。
岂非命也哉？
孔子罕称命，盖难言之也。
非通幽明之变，恶能识乎性命哉？
太史公曰：秦以前尚略矣，其详靡得而记焉。
汉兴，吕娥姁为高祖正后，男为太子。
及晚节色衰爱弛，而戚夫人有宠，其子如意几代太子者数矣。
及高祖崩，吕后夷戚氏，诛赵王，而高祖后宫唯独无宠疏远者得无恙。
吕后长女为宣平侯张敖妻，敖女为孝惠皇后。
吕太后以重亲故，欲其生子万方，终无子，诈取后宫人子为子。
及孝惠帝崩，天下初定未久，继嗣不明。
于是贵外家，王诸吕以为辅，而以吕禄女为少帝后，欲连固根本牢甚，然无益也。
高后崩，合葬长陵。
禄、产等惧诛，谋作乱。
大臣征之，天诱其统，卒灭吕氏。
唯独置孝惠皇后居北宫。
迎立代王，是为孝文帝，奉汉宗庙。
此岂非天邪？
非天命孰能当之？
translation: 
Since ancient times, the founding emperors who were appointed by heaven and the monarchs who inherited the orthodox and abided by the laws of the late emperors were not only intrinsically noble in character, but also mostly had the help of their relatives.
The rise of the Xia Dynasty was due to the daughter of the Tushan family, and Xia Jie's exile was also related to Moxi.
The rise of the Yin Dynasty also relied on the Nu family, and the murder of King Zhou of Shang was also related to his favoring Daji.
The rise of the Zhou Dynasty also relied on Jiang Yuan and Tai Ren, and the capture of King You was also related to his fornication with Bao Si.
Therefore, the "Book of Changes" is based on the two hexagrams "Qian" and "Kun", the "Book of Songs" begins with "Guan Ju", the "Shang Shu" praises Yao for marrying his daughter to Shun, and the "Spring and Autumn" ridicules those who marry their wives without going to meet them in person.
The relationship between husband and wife is the most important ethical relationship in human nature.
In the application of etiquette, only marriage is the most cautious.
When music harmonizes the four seasons, it becomes harmonious. The changes of yin and yang are the rulers of the growth and change of all things. How can we not be cautious?
People can promote human relations, but they can do nothing about destiny.
Indeed, a king cannot get the love of his spouse from his ministers, nor can a father get it from his son, let alone those of low status!
After couples get together, some are unable to produce children and grandchildren; after they are able to produce children, some cannot find a good home.
Isn't this destiny?
Confucius rarely talked about the destiny of heaven, probably because it was difficult to explain clearly.
If we cannot understand the changes of yin and yang, how can we understand the principles of human nature and destiny?
Tai Shigong said: The situation before Qin was too ancient, and the details could not be recorded.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, Lu Ehuang became the empress of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, and her son was the prince.
In her later years, her appearance deteriorated and she fell out of favor. As Mrs. Qi gained favor, her son Ruyi almost replaced the prince several times.
After the death of Emperor Gaozu, Empress Lu executed the Qi family and killed King Zhao Ruyi. However, the concubines in Emperor Gaozu's harem could only be safe if they were not favored and alienated.
Empress Lu's eldest daughter was the wife of Zhang Ao, the Marquis of Xuanping, and Zhang Ao's daughter was the queen of Emperor Hui.
Because of their close relationship, Empress Dowager Lu tried every means to try to get her to have a child, but she never had a child. She had to bring someone else's son from the harem and falsely claimed it was her son.
After the death of Emperor Xiaohui, the world had just stabilized and the person who would succeed the throne was not yet clear.
So he raised the status of his relatives, made the Lu brothers kings as assistants, and made Lu Lu's daughter the queen of the young emperor, hoping to make the foundation stronger, but it was of no use.
Empress Lu died and was buried in Changling with Gaozu.
Lu Lu, Lu Chan and others were afraid of being killed, so they plotted to cause trouble.
The ministers conquered them, and heaven guided the Han family's imperial line, and finally eliminated the Lu family.
Only Queen Xiaohui was placed in the North Palace.
The minister ushered the king into the throne, who was Emperor Xiaowen, and he enshrined the ancestral temple of the Han family.
Isn't this destiny?
If it were not destiny, who could take on this important task?
summary:
The crucial role of marriage and imperial consorts in the rise and fall of dynasties. Founding emperors and orthodox monarchs often relied on their relatives for support. The Xia Dynasty rose through the Tushan family's daughter and fell with Moxi; the Yin Dynasty rose through the Nu family and fell due to Daji; the Zhou Dynasty rose through Jiang Yuan and Tai Ren, while King You's downfall involved Bao Si. The text emphasizes that husband-wife relationships are the most important ethical bond, and marriage is the most cautious ritual application. The narrative then details several Han Dynasty empresses and their families. Empress Lu, wife of Emperor Gaozu, lost favor in her later years as Lady Qi gained prominence. After Gaozu's death, Empress Lu executed the Qi family and killed Prince Ruyi. She tried to secure succession through her daughter's child but failed, eventually elevating her Lu relatives. After her death, the Lu clan plotted rebellion but were eliminated by ministers, who installed Emperor Xiaowen. The text concludes with Emperor Wu's later consorts and his controversial execution of Lady Gou Yi, mother of his youngest son. He explained that young monarchs with living mothers caused chaos, citing Empress Lu as an example. All mothers of Emperor Wu's children were executed to prevent such problems.

Chunk 1: 
original: 
薄太后，父吴人，姓薄氏，秦时与故魏王宗家女魏媪通，生薄姬，而薄父死山阴，因葬焉。
及诸侯畔秦，魏豹立为魏王，而魏媪内其女于魏宫。
媪之许负所相，相薄姬，云当生天子。
是时项羽方与汉王相距荥阳，天下未有所定。
豹初与汉击楚，及闻许负言，心独喜，因背汉而畔，中立，更与楚连和。
汉使曹参等击虏魏王豹，以其国为郡，而薄姬输织室。
豹已死，汉王入织室，见薄姬有色，诏内后宫，岁余不得幸。
始姬少时，与管夫人、赵子儿相爱，约曰： 先贵无相忘。
已而管夫人、赵子儿先幸汉王。
汉王坐河南宫成皋台，此两美人相与笑薄姬初时约。
汉王闻之，问其故，两人具以实告汉王。
汉王心惨然，怜薄姬，是日召而幸之。
薄姬曰： 昨暮夜妾梦苍龙据吾腹。
高帝曰： 此贵征也，吾为女遂成之。
一幸生男，是为代王。
其后薄姬希见高祖。
高祖崩，诸御幸姬戚夫人之属，吕太后怒，皆幽之，不得出宫。
而薄姬以希见故，得出，从子之代，为代王太后。
太后弟薄昭从如代。
代王立十七年，高后崩。
大臣议立后，疾外家吕氏强，皆称薄氏仁善，故迎代王，立为孝文皇帝，而太后改号曰皇太后，弟薄昭封为轵侯。
薄太后母亦前死，葬栎阳北。
于是乃追尊薄父为灵文侯，会稽郡置园邑三百家，长丞已下吏奉守冢，寝庙上食祠如法。
而栎阳北亦置灵文侯夫人园，如灵文侯园仪。
薄太后以为母家魏王后，早失父母，其奉薄太后诸魏有力者，于是召复魏氏，赏赐各以亲疏受之。
薄氏侯者凡一人。
薄太后后文帝二年，以孝景帝前二年崩，葬南陵。
以吕后会葬长陵，故特自起陵，近孝文皇帝霸陵。
窦太后，赵之清河观津人也。
translation: 
Empress Dowager Bo, whose father was a Wu man and whose surname was Bo, had an affair with Wei Wei, a woman from the original Wei king's clan during the Qin Dynasty, and gave birth to Bo Ji. Bo Ji's father died in Shanin and was buried there.
When the princes rebelled against the Qin Dynasty, Wei Bao proclaimed himself King of Wei, and Wei sent her daughter to the palace of the King of Wei.
Wei Lao went to Xu Fu's place to see her fortune teller and asked him to see Bo Ji. Xu Fu said that she would definitely be able to give birth to the emperor.
At that time, Xiang Yu and Liu Bang, the king of Han, were fighting over the world in Xingyang, and it was not yet certain who would own the world.
Wei Bao initially joined the King of Han in attacking the King of Chu, but when he heard Xu Negi's words, he felt happy alone, so he betrayed the King of Han, first remaining neutral, and then allied with the King of Chu.
The king of Han sent Cao Shen and others to attack and imprison King Bao of Wei, changed the Gui land he occupied into a county, and sent Bo Ji to Zhizao mansion where criminals were housed.
After the death of King Bao of Wei, the King of Han once entered the Zhizao Mansion and saw Bo Ji's beautiful appearance. He issued an edict to take her into the harem, but she was not favored for more than a year.
When Bo Ji was young, she was very close to Mrs. Guan and Zhao Zier. The three of them made a vow: Whoever gets rich first will not forget the others.
Later, Mrs. Guan and Zhao Zier were both favored by the King of Han.
One time when the King of Han was sitting on the Chenggao Platform in the Henan Palace, the two beauties laughed at each other as they talked about their vows with Bo Ji.
When the King of Han heard about it, he asked them why, and they both told the King of Han the truth.
The king of Han felt a little sad and felt sorry for Bo Ji, so he summoned her and stayed with her that day.
Bo Ji said: Last night I dreamed of a blue dragon occupying my belly.
Emperor Gaozu said: This is a sign of a noble person. Let me fulfill it for you.
Fortunately, a boy was born, and he became the king.
After that, Bo Ji rarely saw Gaozu.
After the death of Emperor Gaozu, Empress Dowager Lu was very resentful of the concubines such as Mrs. Qi and others who were favored to serve as Emperor Gaozu's bedtime, so she imprisoned them all and were not allowed to leave the palace.
Because Bo Ji rarely saw Gaozu, she was able to leave the palace and follow her son to the Kingdom of Dai, becoming the Queen Mother of Dai.
The Queen Mother's younger brother Bo Zhao also followed him to Dai.
During the seventeenth year of King Dai's reign, Empress Lu passed away.
The ministers discussed the establishment of a new king. They all hated the powerful power of their relative, the Lu family, and praised Bo's benevolence and kindness. Therefore, they welcomed back the king and established him as Emperor Xiaowen. Empress Dowager Bo changed her title to Empress Dowager, and her younger brother Bo Zhao was named Marquis of Zhi.
Empress Dowager Bo's mother had died before that and was buried in the north of Yueyang.
At this time, Empress Dowager Bo's father was honored as Lingwen Marquis, and a garden of 300 households was set up in Kuaiji County. People below Changcheng were sent to serve and guard the tomb. The sacrifices and ceremonies in the ancestral temple were carried out in accordance with the prescribed etiquette.
There is also a cemetery for Mrs. Lingwenhou in the north of Yueyang. All the etiquette is the same as that at the Lingwenhou Cemetery.
Empress Dowager Bo believed that her mother's family was the descendant of King Wei. Her parents died young, and there were people in the Wei family who served Empress Dowager Bo diligently, so she ordered that the status of the Wei family be restored, and rewards were received according to the degree of closeness.
Only one person in the Bo family was granted the title of Marquis.
Empress Dowager Bo died two years later than Emperor Wen, in the second year of Emperor Jing's reign, and was buried in Nanling.
Since Empress Lu was buried with Emperor Gaozu in Changling, she specially built a separate mausoleum for herself, close to Emperor Xiaowen's Ba Mausoleum.
Empress Dowager Dou was a native of Guanjin County, Qinghe County, Zhao State.
summary:
Empress Dowager Bo's story follows. Her mother had an affair with a Wei clan member during Qin times, producing Bo Ji. A fortune-teller predicted she would bear an emperor. Wei Bao, hearing this, betrayed the King of Han but was defeated. Bo Ji entered the harem but remained unfavored for over a year. Through friends' intervention, she gained the king's favor, dreamed of a blue dragon in her belly, and bore a son. After Gaozu's death, because she was rarely favored, she escaped Empress Lu's persecution and followed her son to the Kingdom of Dai, becoming Queen Mother of Dai. After Empress Lu's death, ministers chose her son as Emperor Xiaowen.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
吕太后时，窦姬以良家子入宫侍太后。
太后出宫人以赐诸王，各五人，窦姬与在行中。
窦姬家在清河，欲如赵近家，请其主遣宦者吏： 必置我籍赵之伍中。
宦者忘之，误置其籍代伍中。
籍奏，诏可。
当行，窦姬涕泣，怨其宦者，不欲往，相强，乃肯行。
至代，代王独幸窦姬，生女嫖，后生两男。
而代王王后生四男。
先代王未入立为帝而王后卒。及代王立为帝，而王后所生四男更病死。
孝文帝立数月，公卿请立太子，而窦姬长男最长，立为太子。
立窦姬为皇后，女嫖为长公主。
其明年，立少子武为代王，已而又徙梁，是为梁孝王。
窦皇后亲蚤卒，葬观津。
于是薄太后乃诏有司，追尊窦后父为安成侯，母曰安成夫人。
令清河置园邑二百家，长丞奉守，比灵文园法。
窦皇后兄窦长君，弟曰窦广国，字少君。
少君年四五岁时，家贫，为人所略卖，其家不知其处。
传十余家，至宜阳，为其主入山作炭，暮卧岸下百余人，岸崩，尽压杀卧者，少君独得脱，不死。
自卜数日当为侯，从其家之长安。
闻窦皇后新立，家在观津，姓窦氏。
广国去时虽小，识其县名及姓，又常与其姊采桑堕，用为符信，上书自陈。
窦皇后言之于文帝，召见，问之，具言其故，果是。
又复问他何以为验。对曰： 姊去我西时，与我决于传舍中，丐沐沐我，请食饭我，乃去。
于是窦后持之而泣，泣涕交横下。
侍御左右皆伏地泣，助皇后悲哀。
乃厚赐田宅金钱，封公昆弟，家于长安。
绛侯、灌将军等曰： 吾属不死，命乃且县此两人。
两人所出微，不可不为择师傅宾客，又复效吕氏大事也。
于是乃选长者士之有节行者与居。
窦长君、少君由此为退让君子，不敢以尊贵骄人。
窦皇后病，失明。
translation: 
During the reign of Queen Mother Lu, Concubine Dou was selected from a good family to serve the Queen Mother in the palace.
Later, the Queen Mother sent the maids out of the palace and gave them to the princes and kings, five for each king. Dou Ji was among these maids.
Dou Ji's family was in Qinghe. Thinking that Zhao State was close to her home, she asked the eunuch in charge of the deportation: "My name must be put on the list of people going to Zhao State."
The eunuch forgot about this and mistakenly put her on the list of people going to Dai.
The roster was read, the edict said it was okay, and it was time to set off.
Dou Ji burst into tears and complained that the eunuch didn't want to go, so he forced her to leave before she was willing to leave.
When he arrived in the Kingdom of Dai, the King of Dai only favored Concubine Dou, and gave birth to a daughter called Prostitute, and later gave birth to two boys.
The queen gave birth to four boys.
The queen died before the king entered the court and became the emperor. When the king became the emperor, the four boys born to the queen also died of illness one after another.
A few months after Emperor Xiaowen came to the throne, the ministers requested the establishment of a prince. Dou Ji's eldest son was the oldest and was established as the prince.
Dou Ji was also made the queen, and her daughter Liu Piao was the eldest princess.
The next year, he established his youngest son Liu Wu as the acting king, and soon moved to Liang State. This was King Xiao of Liang.
Queen Dou's parents had died long ago and were buried in Guanjin.
At this time, Empress Dowager Bo issued an edict to relevant officials to honor Empress Dou's father as Marquis Ancheng and his mother as Mrs. Ancheng.
He ordered a garden town of 200 households to be set up in Qinghe, which was served and guarded by the local chief minister. Everything was done in accordance with the practices of Lingwen Garden.
Queen Dou's elder brother is Dou Changjun, and his younger brother is Dou Guangguo, also known as Shaojun.
When Shaojun was four or five years old, his family was poor and he was robbed and sold. His family did not know where he was sold.
He resold a dozen more houses and sold them to Yiyang. He went into the mountain to burn charcoal for his master. At night, more than a hundred people were sleeping under the cliff. The cliff collapsed and crushed all the people sleeping below to death. Only Shaojun escaped and was not crushed to death.
He made his own calculations and concluded that he would be made a marquis within a few days, so he went to Chang'an from his master's house.
I heard that Queen Dou was newly ennobled. Her hometown is Guanjin and her surname is Dou.
Although Guangguo was young when he left home, he still knew the name of the county and his family's surname. He also picked mulberries with his sister and fell from a tree. He used these things as evidence and wrote a letter to state his experience.
Queen Dou told Emperor Wen about this, and Guang Guo was summoned and asked him. He explained the situation in detail, and it was indeed good.
Asked what else he could use to prove it, he replied: When my sister left me to go west, she said goodbye to me in the post dormitory. My sister asked for rice soup to wash my hair and food for me to eat, and then she left.
So Queen Dou held her brother and cried bitterly, with tears streaming down her cheeks.
The attendants on the left and right also fell on the ground and cried, helping the queen to mourn together.
So he was rewarded with a lot of land, houses and money, and the Dou brothers, who had the same ancestor as the queen, were enfeoffed and allowed to move to Chang'an.
Jianghou Zhou Bo, General Guan Ying and others said: We people are not going to die, but our lives hang in the hands of the Dou brothers.
These two people were of humble origins, so they had to choose masters and guests, otherwise they would follow Lu's example and conspire to rebel again.
So he chose an older, virtuous and upright scholar to be with them.
From then on, Dou Changjun and Shaojun became humble and courteous gentlemen, and did not dare to rely on their dignity to be arrogant and arrogant towards others.
Queen Dou fell ill and became blind.
summary:
Empress Dowager Dou was selected for palace service during Empress Lu's reign. When palace maids were distributed to princes, she wanted to go to Zhao but was mistakenly sent to Dai. There, the King of Dai favored her, and she bore two sons. After the queen and her sons died, Dou Ji's eldest son became crown prince, and she became empress. Her brother Dou Guangguo, sold as a child, later identified himself through shared memories and was reunited with her. The Dou family received honors, and Empress Dowager Dou promoted Huang-Lao teachings.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
文帝幸邯郸慎夫人、尹姬，皆毋子。
孝文帝崩，孝景帝立，乃封广国为章武侯。
长君前死，封其子彭祖为南皮侯。
吴楚反时，窦太后从昆弟子窦婴，任侠自喜，将兵，以军功为魏其侯。
窦氏凡三人为侯。
窦太后好黄帝、老子言，帝及太子诸窦不得不读《黄帝》《老子》，尊其术。
窦太后后孝景帝六岁崩，合葬霸陵。
遗诏尽以东宫金钱财物赐长公主嫖。
王太后，槐里人，母曰臧儿。
臧儿者，故燕王臧荼孙也。
臧儿嫁为槐里王仲妻，生男曰信，与两女。
而仲死，臧儿更嫁长陵田氏，生男鼢、胜。
臧儿长女嫁为金王孙妇，生一女矣，而臧儿卜筮之，曰两女皆当贵。
因欲奇两女，乃夺金氏。
金氏怒，不肯予决，乃内之太子宫。
太子幸爱之，生三女一男。
男方在身时，王美人梦日入其怀。
以告太子，太子曰： 此贵征也。
未生而孝文帝崩，孝景帝即位，王夫人生男。
先是臧儿又入其少女儿í姁ǔ，儿姁生四男。
景帝为太子时，薄太后以薄氏女为妃。
及景帝立，立妃曰薄皇后。
皇后毋子，毋宠。
薄太后崩，废薄皇后。
景帝长男荣，其母栗姬。
栗姬，齐人也。
立荣为太子。
长公主嫖有女，欲予为妃。
栗姬妒，而景帝诸美人皆因长公主见景帝，得贵幸，皆过栗姬，栗姬日怨怒，谢长公主，不许。
长公主欲予王夫人，王夫人许之。
长公主怒，而日谗栗姬短于景帝曰： 栗姬与诸贵夫人幸姬会，常使侍者祝唾其背，挟邪媚道。
景帝以故望之。
景帝尝体不安，心不乐，属诸子为王者于栗姬，曰： 百岁后，善视之。
栗姬怒，不肯应，言不逊。
translation: 
Emperor Wen favored Mrs. Shen and Yin Ji of Handan, but neither of them gave birth to children.
After Emperor Xiaowen died, Emperor Xiaojing ascended the throne and granted Guangguo the title of Marquis Zhangwu.
Chang Jun died first, so he named his son Peng Zu the Marquis of Nanpi.
When Wu, Chu and other seven kingdoms rebelled, Dou Ying, the son of Queen Mother Dou's party brothers, liked to act chivalrously and led the army to put down the rebellion. He was named Wei Qihou for his military exploits.
A total of three members of the Dou family were granted the title of marquis.
Empress Dowager Dou loved the teachings of Huang Emperor and Lao Tzu. The emperor, the prince and all the children of the Dou family had to read "Huang Emperor" and "Lao Tzu" and respect Huang Lao's scholarship.
Empress Dowager Dou died six years later than Emperor Jing, and she was buried with Emperor Wen in Ba Ling.
He left an edict and gave all the money and property in the East Palace to the eldest princess Liu Piao.
The Queen Mother is from Huaili, and her mother's name is Zang'er.
Zang'er is the granddaughter of Zang Tu, the original king of Yan.
Zang'er first married Wang Zhong of Huaili and gave birth to a son named Xin and two daughters.
Later, Wang Zhong died, and Zang'er remarried to the Tian family in Changling and gave birth to sons Tian Fu and Tian Sheng.
Zang'er's eldest daughter married Jin Wangsun and gave birth to a daughter. Zang'er considered her children a title, and it turned out that her two daughters were both noble people.
So she wanted to rely on her two daughters, so she forcibly took her daughter back from the Jin family's home.
Jin was very angry and refused to break up with his wife, so Zang'er sent his daughter to the prince's womb.
The prince loved her very much and gave birth to three daughters and one son.
When the boy was still pregnant, Beauty Wang dreamed that the sun fell into her arms.
She told the prince about this dream, and the prince said: This is a sign of great wealth.
Emperor Xiaowen died before he was born. After Emperor Xiaojing came to the throne, Mrs. Wang gave birth to the boy.
Previously, Zang'er sent her youngest daughter Erjiao to the palace, and Erjiao gave birth to four boys.
When Emperor Jing was crown prince, Empress Dowager Bo chose a woman from the Bo family to be his concubine.
When Emperor Jing came to the throne, this concubine was made Queen Bo.
The queen had no children and was not favored.
As soon as Queen Mother Bo died, Queen Bo was deposed.
Liu Rong, the eldest son of Emperor Jing, and his mother was Li Ji.
Li Ji is from Qi.
Liu Rong was established as the prince.
The eldest princess Liu Piao has a daughter who plans to be the prince's concubine.
Li Ji was jealous, and it was only through the eldest princess that the beauties of Emperor Jing met Emperor Jing. They received more honor and favor than Li Ji. Li Ji was resentful every day, so she declined the eldest princess's request and refused to marry.
The eldest princess wanted to betroth her daughter to Mrs. Wang's son, and Mrs. Wang agreed.
The eldest princess was angry about this incident, so she often spoke ill of Li Ji in front of Emperor Jing: When Li Ji gathered with ladies and concubines, her attendants would often spit and curse behind them, and use evil and deceptive techniques.
Emperor Jing was angry with Li Ji because of this.
Emperor Jing was once in poor health and unhappy, so he entrusted his sons who were crowned kings to Li Ji and said to her: After I die, you must take good care of them.
Li Ji was angry, refused to agree, and spoke rudely.
summary:
The text also covers Empress Wang, whose mother Zang'er forcibly took her daughter from her husband Jin Wangsun and sent her to the prince's womb. She dreamed of the sun falling into her arms and bore a son who became Emperor Wu. Lady Li Ji, mother of the eldest son, refused the eldest princess's marriage proposal for her daughter, leading to conflict. Through manipulation, Mrs. Wang's son became crown prince instead.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
上怜之，复幸，遂有身，尊宠日隆。
召其兄卫长君弟青为侍中。
而子夫后大幸，有宠，凡生三女一男。男名据。
初，上为太子时，娶长公主女为妃。立为帝，妃立为皇后，姓陈氏，无子。
上之得为嗣，大长公主有力焉，以故陈皇后骄贵。
闻卫子夫大幸，恚，几死者数矣。
上愈怒。
陈皇后挟妇人媚道，其事颇觉，于是废陈皇后，而立卫子夫为皇后。
陈皇后母大长公主，景帝姊也，数让武帝姊平阳公主曰： 帝非我不得立，已而弃捐吾女，壹何不自喜而倍本乎！
平阳公主曰： 用无子故废耳。
陈皇后求子，与医钱凡九千万，然竟无子。
卫子夫已立为皇后，先是卫长君死，乃以卫青为将军，击胡有功，封为长平侯。
青三子在襁褓中，皆封为列侯。
及卫皇后所谓姊卫少儿，少儿生子霍去病，以军功封冠军侯，号骠骑将军。
青号大将军。
立卫皇后子据为太子。
卫氏枝属以军功起家，五人为侯。
及卫后色衰，赵之王夫人幸，有子，为齐王。
王夫人蚤卒。
而中山李夫人有宠，有男一人，为昌邑王。
李夫人蚤卒，其兄李延年以音幸，号协律。
协律者，故倡也。
兄弟皆坐奸，族。
是时其长兄广利为贰师将军，伐大宛，不及诛，还，而上既夷李氏，后怜其家，乃封为海西侯。
他姬子二人为燕王、广陵王。
其母无宠，以忧死。
及李夫人卒，则有尹婕妤之属，更有宠。然皆以倡见，非王侯有土之士女，不可以配人主也。
褚先生曰：臣为郎时，问习汉家故事者钟离生。
曰：王太后在民间时所生一女者，父为金王孙。
王孙已死，景帝崩后，武帝已立，王太后独在。
而韩王孙名嫣素得幸武帝，承间白言太后有女在长陵也。
武帝曰： 何不蚤言！
translation: 
The emperor loved her and favored her again, so she became pregnant and became more respected and favored day by day.
Emperor Wu summoned her elder brother Wei Changjun and younger brother Wei Qing to serve as ministers.
Later, Zifu became very favored by Emperor Wu and gave birth to three daughters and one son. The son's name was Zhu.
When Emperor Wu was still the crown prince, he married the eldest princess's daughter as his concubine. When he ascended the throne as emperor, the concubine was made empress, with the surname Chen, and she had no children.
The emperor can inherit the throne, and the eldest princess has contributed a lot, so Queen Chen is arrogant and arrogant.
Hearing that Wei Zifu was favored by Emperor Wu, he was very angry and sought death many times.
The emperor also became even more angry.
Empress Chen used women's witchcraft to deceive people. Emperor Wu was quite aware of this, so he deposed Empress Chen and made Wei Zifu the empress.
Empress Chen's mother, Princess Dachang, was the sister of Emperor Jing. She repeatedly reproached Emperor Wu's sister, Princess Pingyang, saying: The emperor could not ascend the throne without me. After he ascended the throne, he actually abandoned my daughter. Why don't you feel lucky and forget your duty?
Princess Pingyang said: It was because he had no sons that he was abandoned.
Empress Chen was eager to have a child and spent as much as 90 million on medical expenses, but she was unable to have a child.
When Wei Zifu was made queen, Wei Changjun was already dead, so Emperor Wu appointed Wei Qing as general. Wei Qing made Wei Qing the Marquis of Changping because of his military exploits against the Hu people.
His three sons were still in their infancy, and they were all named princes.
Empress Wei had an older sister, Wei Shaoer, and her son Huo Qubing was named a champion marquis because of his military exploits, and was known as the Cavalry General.
Wei Qing is known as the general.
Empress Wei's son Liu Zheng was made the crown prince.
The Wei family's relatives started their careers with military exploits, and five of them were granted the title of marquis.
When Queen Wei's beauty grew old, Mrs. Wang of Zhao was favored, had a son, and was named King of Qi.
Mrs. Wang died young.
Mrs. Li of Zhongshan was favored and gave birth to a son, who was named King of Changyi.
Mrs. Li died young, and her brother Li Yannian was favored because of his proficiency in music and was named a co-regulator.
The so-called Xielu refers to the former singing and dancing artists.
Their brothers were all exterminated for committing adultery in the harem.
At that time, her eldest brother Li Guangli was the general of the Second Division and was conquering Dayuan. He was not killed. When he returned to Chang'an, the emperor had already killed the Li family. Later, he showed mercy to his family and named him Marquis of Haixi.
The other imperial concubines also have two sons, King Yan and King Guangling.
Their mother was unloved and died of sorrow.
After Mrs. Li's death, Yin Jie and others were alternately favored. However, they all met Emperor Wu as singing girls. They were not women from princely families with fiefdoms and should not be matched with the emperor.
Mr. Chu said: When I was appointed Langguan, I asked Zhong Lisheng, who was familiar with the old affairs of the Han family.
According to him, the Queen Mother gave birth to a daughter when she was among the people, and her father was the grandson of King Jin.
Wang Sun was dead. After Emperor Jing's death, Emperor Wu came to the throne. Only the Queen Mother was still there.
Han Wang's grandson named Yan was usually favored by Emperor Wu. He took the opportunity to talk about the Queen Mother having a daughter in Changling.
Emperor Wu said: Why didn't you tell me earlier?
summary:
Wei Zifu, a singer from Princess Pingyang's household, caught Emperor Wu's attention. After initial neglect, she became pregnant and gained favor, eventually becoming empress after Empress Chen was deposed for witchcraft. Her brother Wei Qing became a general, and her family produced five marquises.

