Chunk 0: 
original: 
自古受命帝王及继体守文之君，非独内德茂也，盖亦有外戚之助焉。
夏之兴也以涂山，而桀之放也以末喜。
殷之兴也以有娀ō，纣之杀也嬖妲己。
周之兴也以姜原及大任，而幽王之禽也淫于褒姒。
故《易》基《干》《坤》，《诗》始《关雎》，《书》美厘降，《春秋》讥不亲迎。
夫妇之际，人道之大伦也。
礼之用，唯婚姻为兢兢。
夫乐调而四时和，阴阳之变，万物之统也。可不慎与？
人能弘道，无如命何。
甚哉，妃匹之爱，君不能得之于臣，父不能得之于子，况卑下乎！
既欢合矣，或不能成子姓；能成子姓矣，或不能要其终。
岂非命也哉？
孔子罕称命，盖难言之也。
非通幽明之变，恶能识乎性命哉？
太史公曰：秦以前尚略矣，其详靡得而记焉。
汉兴，吕娥姁为高祖正后，男为太子。
及晚节色衰爱弛，而戚夫人有宠，其子如意几代太子者数矣。
及高祖崩，吕后夷戚氏，诛赵王，而高祖后宫唯独无宠疏远者得无恙。
吕后长女为宣平侯张敖妻，敖女为孝惠皇后。
吕太后以重亲故，欲其生子万方，终无子，诈取后宫人子为子。
及孝惠帝崩，天下初定未久，继嗣不明。
于是贵外家，王诸吕以为辅，而以吕禄女为少帝后，欲连固根本牢甚，然无益也。
高后崩，合葬长陵。
禄、产等惧诛，谋作乱。
大臣征之，天诱其统，卒灭吕氏。
唯独置孝惠皇后居北宫。
迎立代王，是为孝文帝，奉汉宗庙。
此岂非天邪？
非天命孰能当之？
translation: 
Since ancient times, the founding emperors who were appointed by heaven and the monarchs who inherited the orthodox and abided by the laws of the late emperors were not only intrinsically noble in character, but also mostly had the help of their relatives.
The rise of the Xia Dynasty was due to the daughter of the Tushan family, and Xia Jie's exile was also related to Moxi.
The rise of the Yin Dynasty also relied on the Nu family, and the murder of King Zhou of Shang was also related to his favoring Daji.
The rise of the Zhou Dynasty also relied on Jiang Yuan and Tai Ren, and the capture of King You was also related to his fornication with Bao Si.
Therefore, the "Book of Changes" is based on the two hexagrams "Qian" and "Kun", the "Book of Songs" begins with "Guan Ju", the "Shang Shu" praises Yao for marrying his daughter to Shun, and the "Spring and Autumn" ridicules those who marry their wives without going to meet them in person.
The relationship between husband and wife is the most important ethical relationship in human nature.
In the application of etiquette, only marriage is the most cautious.
When music harmonizes the four seasons, it becomes harmonious. The changes of yin and yang are the rulers of the growth and change of all things. How can we not be cautious?
People can promote human relations, but they can do nothing about destiny.
Indeed, a king cannot get the love of his spouse from his ministers, nor can a father get it from his son, let alone those of low status!
After couples get together, some are unable to produce children and grandchildren; after they are able to produce children, some cannot find a good home.
Isn't this destiny?
Confucius rarely talked about the destiny of heaven, probably because it was difficult to explain clearly.
If we cannot understand the changes of yin and yang, how can we understand the principles of human nature and destiny?
Tai Shigong said: The situation before Qin was too ancient, and the details could not be recorded.
After the establishment of the Han Dynasty, Lu Ehuang became the empress of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, and her son was the prince.
In her later years, her appearance deteriorated and she fell out of favor. As Mrs. Qi gained favor, her son Ruyi almost replaced the prince several times.
After the death of Emperor Gaozu, Empress Lu executed the Qi family and killed King Zhao Ruyi. However, the concubines in Emperor Gaozu's harem could only be safe if they were not favored and alienated.
Empress Lu's eldest daughter was the wife of Zhang Ao, the Marquis of Xuanping, and Zhang Ao's daughter was the queen of Emperor Hui.
Because of their close relationship, Empress Dowager Lu tried every means to try to get her to have a child, but she never had a child. She had to bring someone else's son from the harem and falsely claimed it was her son.
After the death of Emperor Xiaohui, the world had just stabilized and the person who would succeed the throne was not yet clear.
So he raised the status of his relatives, made the Lu brothers kings as assistants, and made Lu Lu's daughter the queen of the young emperor, hoping to make the foundation stronger, but it was of no use.
Empress Lu died and was buried in Changling with Gaozu.
Lu Lu, Lu Chan and others were afraid of being killed, so they plotted to cause trouble.
The ministers conquered them, and heaven guided the Han family's imperial line, and finally eliminated the Lu family.
Only Queen Xiaohui was placed in the North Palace.
The minister ushered the king into the throne, who was Emperor Xiaowen, and he enshrined the ancestral temple of the Han family.
Isn't this destiny?
If it were not destiny, who could take on this important task?


Chunk 1: 
original: 
薄太后，父吴人，姓薄氏，秦时与故魏王宗家女魏媪通，生薄姬，而薄父死山阴，因葬焉。
及诸侯畔秦，魏豹立为魏王，而魏媪内其女于魏宫。
媪之许负所相，相薄姬，云当生天子。
是时项羽方与汉王相距荥阳，天下未有所定。
豹初与汉击楚，及闻许负言，心独喜，因背汉而畔，中立，更与楚连和。
汉使曹参等击虏魏王豹，以其国为郡，而薄姬输织室。
豹已死，汉王入织室，见薄姬有色，诏内后宫，岁余不得幸。
始姬少时，与管夫人、赵子儿相爱，约曰： 先贵无相忘。
已而管夫人、赵子儿先幸汉王。
汉王坐河南宫成皋台，此两美人相与笑薄姬初时约。
汉王闻之，问其故，两人具以实告汉王。
汉王心惨然，怜薄姬，是日召而幸之。
薄姬曰： 昨暮夜妾梦苍龙据吾腹。
高帝曰： 此贵征也，吾为女遂成之。
一幸生男，是为代王。
其后薄姬希见高祖。
高祖崩，诸御幸姬戚夫人之属，吕太后怒，皆幽之，不得出宫。
而薄姬以希见故，得出，从子之代，为代王太后。
太后弟薄昭从如代。
代王立十七年，高后崩。
大臣议立后，疾外家吕氏强，皆称薄氏仁善，故迎代王，立为孝文皇帝，而太后改号曰皇太后，弟薄昭封为轵侯。
薄太后母亦前死，葬栎阳北。
于是乃追尊薄父为灵文侯，会稽郡置园邑三百家，长丞已下吏奉守冢，寝庙上食祠如法。
而栎阳北亦置灵文侯夫人园，如灵文侯园仪。
薄太后以为母家魏王后，早失父母，其奉薄太后诸魏有力者，于是召复魏氏，赏赐各以亲疏受之。
薄氏侯者凡一人。
薄太后后文帝二年，以孝景帝前二年崩，葬南陵。
以吕后会葬长陵，故特自起陵，近孝文皇帝霸陵。
窦太后，赵之清河观津人也。
translation: 
Empress Dowager Bo, whose father was a Wu man and whose surname was Bo, had an affair with Wei Wei, a woman from the original Wei king's clan during the Qin Dynasty, and gave birth to Bo Ji. Bo Ji's father died in Shanin and was buried there.
When the princes rebelled against the Qin Dynasty, Wei Bao proclaimed himself King of Wei, and Wei sent her daughter to the palace of the King of Wei.
Wei Lao went to Xu Fu's place to see her fortune teller and asked him to see Bo Ji. Xu Fu said that she would definitely be able to give birth to the emperor.
At that time, Xiang Yu and Liu Bang, the king of Han, were fighting over the world in Xingyang, and it was not yet certain who would own the world.
Wei Bao initially joined the King of Han in attacking the King of Chu, but when he heard Xu Negi's words, he felt happy alone, so he betrayed the King of Han, first remaining neutral, and then allied with the King of Chu.
The king of Han sent Cao Shen and others to attack and imprison King Bao of Wei, changed the Gui land he occupied into a county, and sent Bo Ji to Zhizao mansion where criminals were housed.
After the death of King Bao of Wei, the King of Han once entered the Zhizao Mansion and saw Bo Ji's beautiful appearance. He issued an edict to take her into the harem, but she was not favored for more than a year.
When Bo Ji was young, she was very close to Mrs. Guan and Zhao Zier. The three of them made a vow: Whoever gets rich first will not forget the others.
Later, Mrs. Guan and Zhao Zier were both favored by the King of Han.
One time when the King of Han was sitting on the Chenggao Platform in the Henan Palace, the two beauties laughed at each other as they talked about their vows with Bo Ji.
When the King of Han heard about it, he asked them why, and they both told the King of Han the truth.
The king of Han felt a little sad and felt sorry for Bo Ji, so he summoned her and stayed with her that day.
Bo Ji said: Last night I dreamed of a blue dragon occupying my belly.
Emperor Gaozu said: This is a sign of a noble person. Let me fulfill it for you.
Fortunately, a boy was born, and he became the king.
After that, Bo Ji rarely saw Gaozu.
After the death of Emperor Gaozu, Empress Dowager Lu was very resentful of the concubines such as Mrs. Qi and others who were favored to serve as Emperor Gaozu's bedtime, so she imprisoned them all and were not allowed to leave the palace.
Because Bo Ji rarely saw Gaozu, she was able to leave the palace and follow her son to the Kingdom of Dai, becoming the Queen Mother of Dai.
The Queen Mother's younger brother Bo Zhao also followed him to Dai.
During the seventeenth year of King Dai's reign, Empress Lu passed away.
The ministers discussed the establishment of a new king. They all hated the powerful power of their relative, the Lu family, and praised Bo's benevolence and kindness. Therefore, they welcomed back the king and established him as Emperor Xiaowen. Empress Dowager Bo changed her title to Empress Dowager, and her younger brother Bo Zhao was named Marquis of Zhi.
Empress Dowager Bo's mother had died before that and was buried in the north of Yueyang.
At this time, Empress Dowager Bo's father was honored as Lingwen Marquis, and a garden of 300 households was set up in Kuaiji County. People below Changcheng were sent to serve and guard the tomb. The sacrifices and ceremonies in the ancestral temple were carried out in accordance with the prescribed etiquette.
There is also a cemetery for Mrs. Lingwenhou in the north of Yueyang. All the etiquette is the same as that at the Lingwenhou Cemetery.
Empress Dowager Bo believed that her mother's family was the descendant of King Wei. Her parents died young, and there were people in the Wei family who served Empress Dowager Bo diligently, so she ordered that the status of the Wei family be restored, and rewards were received according to the degree of closeness.
Only one person in the Bo family was granted the title of Marquis.
Empress Dowager Bo died two years later than Emperor Wen, in the second year of Emperor Jing's reign, and was buried in Nanling.
Since Empress Lu was buried with Emperor Gaozu in Changling, she specially built a separate mausoleum for herself, close to Emperor Xiaowen's Ba Mausoleum.
Empress Dowager Dou was a native of Guanjin County, Qinghe County, Zhao State.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
吕太后时，窦姬以良家子入宫侍太后。
太后出宫人以赐诸王，各五人，窦姬与在行中。
窦姬家在清河，欲如赵近家，请其主遣宦者吏： 必置我籍赵之伍中。
宦者忘之，误置其籍代伍中。
籍奏，诏可。
当行，窦姬涕泣，怨其宦者，不欲往，相强，乃肯行。
至代，代王独幸窦姬，生女嫖，后生两男。
而代王王后生四男。
先代王未入立为帝而王后卒。及代王立为帝，而王后所生四男更病死。
孝文帝立数月，公卿请立太子，而窦姬长男最长，立为太子。
立窦姬为皇后，女嫖为长公主。
其明年，立少子武为代王，已而又徙梁，是为梁孝王。
窦皇后亲蚤卒，葬观津。
于是薄太后乃诏有司，追尊窦后父为安成侯，母曰安成夫人。
令清河置园邑二百家，长丞奉守，比灵文园法。
窦皇后兄窦长君，弟曰窦广国，字少君。
少君年四五岁时，家贫，为人所略卖，其家不知其处。
传十余家，至宜阳，为其主入山作炭，暮卧岸下百余人，岸崩，尽压杀卧者，少君独得脱，不死。
自卜数日当为侯，从其家之长安。
闻窦皇后新立，家在观津，姓窦氏。
广国去时虽小，识其县名及姓，又常与其姊采桑堕，用为符信，上书自陈。
窦皇后言之于文帝，召见，问之，具言其故，果是。
又复问他何以为验。对曰： 姊去我西时，与我决于传舍中，丐沐沐我，请食饭我，乃去。
于是窦后持之而泣，泣涕交横下。
侍御左右皆伏地泣，助皇后悲哀。
乃厚赐田宅金钱，封公昆弟，家于长安。
绛侯、灌将军等曰： 吾属不死，命乃且县此两人。
两人所出微，不可不为择师傅宾客，又复效吕氏大事也。
于是乃选长者士之有节行者与居。
窦长君、少君由此为退让君子，不敢以尊贵骄人。
窦皇后病，失明。
translation: 
During the reign of Queen Mother Lu, Concubine Dou was selected from a good family to serve the Queen Mother in the palace.
Later, the Queen Mother sent the maids out of the palace and gave them to the princes and kings, five for each king. Dou Ji was among these maids.
Dou Ji's family was in Qinghe. Thinking that Zhao State was close to her home, she asked the eunuch in charge of the deportation: "My name must be put on the list of people going to Zhao State."
The eunuch forgot about this and mistakenly put her on the list of people going to Dai.
The roster was read, the edict said it was okay, and it was time to set off.
Dou Ji burst into tears and complained that the eunuch didn't want to go, so he forced her to leave before she was willing to leave.
When he arrived in the Kingdom of Dai, the King of Dai only favored Concubine Dou, and gave birth to a daughter called Prostitute, and later gave birth to two boys.
The queen gave birth to four boys.
The queen died before the king entered the court and became the emperor. When the king became the emperor, the four boys born to the queen also died of illness one after another.
A few months after Emperor Xiaowen came to the throne, the ministers requested the establishment of a prince. Dou Ji's eldest son was the oldest and was established as the prince.
Dou Ji was also made the queen, and her daughter Liu Piao was the eldest princess.
The next year, he established his youngest son Liu Wu as the acting king, and soon moved to Liang State. This was King Xiao of Liang.
Queen Dou's parents had died long ago and were buried in Guanjin.
At this time, Empress Dowager Bo issued an edict to relevant officials to honor Empress Dou's father as Marquis Ancheng and his mother as Mrs. Ancheng.
He ordered a garden town of 200 households to be set up in Qinghe, which was served and guarded by the local chief minister. Everything was done in accordance with the practices of Lingwen Garden.
Queen Dou's elder brother is Dou Changjun, and his younger brother is Dou Guangguo, also known as Shaojun.
When Shaojun was four or five years old, his family was poor and he was robbed and sold. His family did not know where he was sold.
He resold a dozen more houses and sold them to Yiyang. He went into the mountain to burn charcoal for his master. At night, more than a hundred people were sleeping under the cliff. The cliff collapsed and crushed all the people sleeping below to death. Only Shaojun escaped and was not crushed to death.
He made his own calculations and concluded that he would be made a marquis within a few days, so he went to Chang'an from his master's house.
I heard that Queen Dou was newly ennobled. Her hometown is Guanjin and her surname is Dou.
Although Guangguo was young when he left home, he still knew the name of the county and his family's surname. He also picked mulberries with his sister and fell from a tree. He used these things as evidence and wrote a letter to state his experience.
Queen Dou told Emperor Wen about this, and Guang Guo was summoned and asked him. He explained the situation in detail, and it was indeed good.
Asked what else he could use to prove it, he replied: When my sister left me to go west, she said goodbye to me in the post dormitory. My sister asked for rice soup to wash my hair and food for me to eat, and then she left.
So Queen Dou held her brother and cried bitterly, with tears streaming down her cheeks.
The attendants on the left and right also fell on the ground and cried, helping the queen to mourn together.
So he was rewarded with a lot of land, houses and money, and the Dou brothers, who had the same ancestor as the queen, were enfeoffed and allowed to move to Chang'an.
Jianghou Zhou Bo, General Guan Ying and others said: We people are not going to die, but our lives hang in the hands of the Dou brothers.
These two people were of humble origins, so they had to choose masters and guests, otherwise they would follow Lu's example and conspire to rebel again.
So he chose an older, virtuous and upright scholar to be with them.
From then on, Dou Changjun and Shaojun became humble and courteous gentlemen, and did not dare to rely on their dignity to be arrogant and arrogant towards others.
Queen Dou fell ill and became blind.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
文帝幸邯郸慎夫人、尹姬，皆毋子。
孝文帝崩，孝景帝立，乃封广国为章武侯。
长君前死，封其子彭祖为南皮侯。
吴楚反时，窦太后从昆弟子窦婴，任侠自喜，将兵，以军功为魏其侯。
窦氏凡三人为侯。
窦太后好黄帝、老子言，帝及太子诸窦不得不读《黄帝》《老子》，尊其术。
窦太后后孝景帝六岁崩，合葬霸陵。
遗诏尽以东宫金钱财物赐长公主嫖。
王太后，槐里人，母曰臧儿。
臧儿者，故燕王臧荼孙也。
臧儿嫁为槐里王仲妻，生男曰信，与两女。
而仲死，臧儿更嫁长陵田氏，生男鼢、胜。
臧儿长女嫁为金王孙妇，生一女矣，而臧儿卜筮之，曰两女皆当贵。
因欲奇两女，乃夺金氏。
金氏怒，不肯予决，乃内之太子宫。
太子幸爱之，生三女一男。
男方在身时，王美人梦日入其怀。
以告太子，太子曰： 此贵征也。
未生而孝文帝崩，孝景帝即位，王夫人生男。
先是臧儿又入其少女儿í姁ǔ，儿姁生四男。
景帝为太子时，薄太后以薄氏女为妃。
及景帝立，立妃曰薄皇后。
皇后毋子，毋宠。
薄太后崩，废薄皇后。
景帝长男荣，其母栗姬。
栗姬，齐人也。
立荣为太子。
长公主嫖有女，欲予为妃。
栗姬妒，而景帝诸美人皆因长公主见景帝，得贵幸，皆过栗姬，栗姬日怨怒，谢长公主，不许。
长公主欲予王夫人，王夫人许之。
长公主怒，而日谗栗姬短于景帝曰： 栗姬与诸贵夫人幸姬会，常使侍者祝唾其背，挟邪媚道。
景帝以故望之。
景帝尝体不安，心不乐，属诸子为王者于栗姬，曰： 百岁后，善视之。
栗姬怒，不肯应，言不逊。
translation: 
Emperor Wen favored Mrs. Shen and Yin Ji of Handan, but neither of them gave birth to children.
After Emperor Xiaowen died, Emperor Xiaojing ascended the throne and granted Guangguo the title of Marquis Zhangwu.
Chang Jun died first, so he named his son Peng Zu the Marquis of Nanpi.
When Wu, Chu and other seven kingdoms rebelled, Dou Ying, the son of Queen Mother Dou's party brothers, liked to act chivalrously and led the army to put down the rebellion. He was named Wei Qihou for his military exploits.
A total of three members of the Dou family were granted the title of marquis.
Empress Dowager Dou loved the teachings of Huang Emperor and Lao Tzu. The emperor, the prince and all the children of the Dou family had to read "Huang Emperor" and "Lao Tzu" and respect Huang Lao's scholarship.
Empress Dowager Dou died six years later than Emperor Jing, and she was buried with Emperor Wen in Ba Ling.
He left an edict and gave all the money and property in the East Palace to the eldest princess Liu Piao.
The Queen Mother is from Huaili, and her mother's name is Zang'er.
Zang'er is the granddaughter of Zang Tu, the original king of Yan.
Zang'er first married Wang Zhong of Huaili and gave birth to a son named Xin and two daughters.
Later, Wang Zhong died, and Zang'er remarried to the Tian family in Changling and gave birth to sons Tian Fu and Tian Sheng.
Zang'er's eldest daughter married Jin Wangsun and gave birth to a daughter. Zang'er considered her children a title, and it turned out that her two daughters were both noble people.
So she wanted to rely on her two daughters, so she forcibly took her daughter back from the Jin family's home.
Jin was very angry and refused to break up with his wife, so Zang'er sent his daughter to the prince's womb.
The prince loved her very much and gave birth to three daughters and one son.
When the boy was still pregnant, Beauty Wang dreamed that the sun fell into her arms.
She told the prince about this dream, and the prince said: This is a sign of great wealth.
Emperor Xiaowen died before he was born. After Emperor Xiaojing came to the throne, Mrs. Wang gave birth to the boy.
Previously, Zang'er sent her youngest daughter Erjiao to the palace, and Erjiao gave birth to four boys.
When Emperor Jing was crown prince, Empress Dowager Bo chose a woman from the Bo family to be his concubine.
When Emperor Jing came to the throne, this concubine was made Queen Bo.
The queen had no children and was not favored.
As soon as Queen Mother Bo died, Queen Bo was deposed.
Liu Rong, the eldest son of Emperor Jing, and his mother was Li Ji.
Li Ji is from Qi.
Liu Rong was established as the prince.
The eldest princess Liu Piao has a daughter who plans to be the prince's concubine.
Li Ji was jealous, and it was only through the eldest princess that the beauties of Emperor Jing met Emperor Jing. They received more honor and favor than Li Ji. Li Ji was resentful every day, so she declined the eldest princess's request and refused to marry.
The eldest princess wanted to betroth her daughter to Mrs. Wang's son, and Mrs. Wang agreed.
The eldest princess was angry about this incident, so she often spoke ill of Li Ji in front of Emperor Jing: When Li Ji gathered with ladies and concubines, her attendants would often spit and curse behind them, and use evil and deceptive techniques.
Emperor Jing was angry with Li Ji because of this.
Emperor Jing was once in poor health and unhappy, so he entrusted his sons who were crowned kings to Li Ji and said to her: After I die, you must take good care of them.
Li Ji was angry, refused to agree, and spoke rudely.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
景帝恚，心嗛之而未发也。
长公主日誉王夫人男之美，景帝亦贤之，又有曩者所梦日符，计未有所定。
王夫人知帝望栗姬，因怒未解，阴使人趣大臣立栗姬为皇后。
大行奏事毕，曰：  子以母贵，母以子贵 ，今太子母无号，宜立为皇后。
景帝怒曰： 是而所宜言邪！
遂案诛大行，而废太子为临江王。
栗姬愈恚恨，不得见，以忧死。
卒立王夫人为皇后，其男为太子，封皇后兄信为盖侯。
景帝崩，太子袭号为皇帝。
尊皇太后母臧儿为平原君。
封田鼢为武安侯，胜为周阳侯。
景帝十三男，一男为帝，十二男皆为王。
而儿姁早卒，其四子皆为王。
王太后长女号曰平阳公主，次为南宫公主，次为林虑公主。
盖侯信好酒。
田鼢、胜贪，巧于文辞。
王仲蚤死，葬槐里，追尊为共侯，置园邑二百家。
及平原君卒，从田氏葬长陵，置园比共侯园。
而王太后后孝景帝十六岁，以元朔四年崩，合葬阳陵。
王太后家凡三人为侯。
卫皇后字子夫，生微矣。
盖其家号曰卫氏，出平阳侯邑。
子夫为平阳主讴者。
武帝初即位，数岁无子。
平阳主求诸良家子女十余人，饰置家。
武帝祓霸上还，因过平阳主。
主见所侍美人。
上弗说。既饮，讴ō者进，上望见，独说卫子夫。
是日，武帝起更衣，子夫侍尚衣轩中，得幸。
上还坐，欢甚，赐平阳主金千斤。
主因奏子夫奉送入宫。
子夫上车，平阳主拊其背曰： 行矣，强饭，勉之！
即贵，无相忘。
入宫岁余，竟不复幸。
武帝择宫人不中用者，斥出归之。
卫子夫得见，涕泣请出。
translation: 
Emperor Jing was very angry, but his grudge did not break out.
The eldest princess praised the merits of Mrs. Wang's son every day. Emperor Jing also thought that he had both political integrity and talent, and he had the auspicious sign that his mother had fallen in love with him in the dream. However, he still could not decide on the idea of ​​making the prince a prince.
Mrs. Wang knew that Emperor Jing resented Li Ji, so while his anger was still lingering, she secretly sent someone to urge the ministers to petition Li Ji to be the queen.
After a court meeting, the chief executive said: "A son is more valuable than his mother, and a mother is more valuable than his son. Now that the prince's mother has not been given a title, she should be made queen."
Emperor Jing was angry and said: Is this what you should say?
As a result, the official was executed for the crime, the prince was deposed, and he was named King of Linjiang.
Li Ji was even more resentful and could not see Emperor Jing, so she died in depression.
Mrs. Wang was finally made queen, her son was made prince, and the queen's brother Wang Xin was made Gaihou.
Emperor Jing died and the prince succeeded him as emperor.
Zang'er, the empress dowager's mother, was honored as Lord Pingyuan.
Tian Fu was granted the title of Marquis of Wu'an, and Tian Sheng was granted the title of Marquis of Zhou Yang.
Emperor Jing had thirteen sons, one son became emperor, and all twelve sons were crowned kings.
Er Ji died young, and her four sons were all crowned kings.
The Queen Mother's eldest daughter was titled Princess Pingyang, her second daughter was Princess Nangong, and her third daughter was Princess Linli.
Gaihou Wangxin likes drinking.
Tian Fu and Tian Sheng are greedy people and good at using words and arguments.
Wang Zhong died early and was buried in Huaili. He was honored as Gonghou and established a garden of 200 households.
When Lord Pingyuan died, he was buried in Changling together with the Tian family. The cemetery set up had the same specifications as the Gonghou Cemetery.
The Queen Mother died sixteen years later than Emperor Xiao Jing, in the fourth year of Yuanshuo, and was buried with Emperor Jing in Yangling.
A total of three people in the Queen Mother's family were granted the title of marquis.
Queen Wei, also known as Zifu, came from a humble background.
Probably her family was called the Wei family and was within the Pingyang Marquis fiefdom.
Zifu is the singer of Princess Pingyang.
Emperor Wu newly came to the throne and had no sons for several years.
Princess Pingyang selected a dozen girls from good families, dressed them up and stayed at home.
Emperor Wu came back from participating in the ceremony to eliminate disasters and pray for good fortune in Bashang, and stopped by Princess Pingyang's house.
The princess asked all the beauties serving her to come out to see Emperor Wu, but Emperor Wu didn't like it.
After drinking, the singer came in. When Emperor Wu saw her, he only liked Wei Zifu.
On this day, Emperor Wu got up to change his clothes. Zifu served in the emperor's clothes carriage and was honored by his relatives.
Emperor Wu returned to his seat, very happy, and gave Princess Pingyang a thousand catties of gold.
The princess took the opportunity to ask Wei Zifu to be sent to the palace.
After Zifu got in the car, Princess Pingyang stroked her back and said: Let's go, eat well and work hard!
If you are noble, don't forget me.
Zihu had been in the palace for more than a year, but he never received Emperor Wu's favor again.
Emperor Wu singled out the useless palace servants and asked them to leave the palace and go home.
Wei Zifu was then able to see Emperor Wu, and she cried and asked to leave the palace.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
上怜之，复幸，遂有身，尊宠日隆。
召其兄卫长君弟青为侍中。
而子夫后大幸，有宠，凡生三女一男。男名据。
初，上为太子时，娶长公主女为妃。立为帝，妃立为皇后，姓陈氏，无子。
上之得为嗣，大长公主有力焉，以故陈皇后骄贵。
闻卫子夫大幸，恚，几死者数矣。
上愈怒。
陈皇后挟妇人媚道，其事颇觉，于是废陈皇后，而立卫子夫为皇后。
陈皇后母大长公主，景帝姊也，数让武帝姊平阳公主曰： 帝非我不得立，已而弃捐吾女，壹何不自喜而倍本乎！
平阳公主曰： 用无子故废耳。
陈皇后求子，与医钱凡九千万，然竟无子。
卫子夫已立为皇后，先是卫长君死，乃以卫青为将军，击胡有功，封为长平侯。
青三子在襁褓中，皆封为列侯。
及卫皇后所谓姊卫少儿，少儿生子霍去病，以军功封冠军侯，号骠骑将军。
青号大将军。
立卫皇后子据为太子。
卫氏枝属以军功起家，五人为侯。
及卫后色衰，赵之王夫人幸，有子，为齐王。
王夫人蚤卒。
而中山李夫人有宠，有男一人，为昌邑王。
李夫人蚤卒，其兄李延年以音幸，号协律。
协律者，故倡也。
兄弟皆坐奸，族。
是时其长兄广利为贰师将军，伐大宛，不及诛，还，而上既夷李氏，后怜其家，乃封为海西侯。
他姬子二人为燕王、广陵王。
其母无宠，以忧死。
及李夫人卒，则有尹婕妤之属，更有宠。然皆以倡见，非王侯有土之士女，不可以配人主也。
褚先生曰：臣为郎时，问习汉家故事者钟离生。
曰：王太后在民间时所生一女者，父为金王孙。
王孙已死，景帝崩后，武帝已立，王太后独在。
而韩王孙名嫣素得幸武帝，承间白言太后有女在长陵也。
武帝曰： 何不蚤言！
translation: 
The emperor loved her and favored her again, so she became pregnant and became more respected and favored day by day.
Emperor Wu summoned her elder brother Wei Changjun and younger brother Wei Qing to serve as ministers.
Later, Zifu became very favored by Emperor Wu and gave birth to three daughters and one son. The son's name was Zhu.
When Emperor Wu was still the crown prince, he married the eldest princess's daughter as his concubine. When he ascended the throne as emperor, the concubine was made empress, with the surname Chen, and she had no children.
The emperor can inherit the throne, and the eldest princess has contributed a lot, so Queen Chen is arrogant and arrogant.
Hearing that Wei Zifu was favored by Emperor Wu, he was very angry and sought death many times.
The emperor also became even more angry.
Empress Chen used women's witchcraft to deceive people. Emperor Wu was quite aware of this, so he deposed Empress Chen and made Wei Zifu the empress.
Empress Chen's mother, Princess Dachang, was the sister of Emperor Jing. She repeatedly reproached Emperor Wu's sister, Princess Pingyang, saying: The emperor could not ascend the throne without me. After he ascended the throne, he actually abandoned my daughter. Why don't you feel lucky and forget your duty?
Princess Pingyang said: It was because he had no sons that he was abandoned.
Empress Chen was eager to have a child and spent as much as 90 million on medical expenses, but she was unable to have a child.
When Wei Zifu was made queen, Wei Changjun was already dead, so Emperor Wu appointed Wei Qing as general. Wei Qing made Wei Qing the Marquis of Changping because of his military exploits against the Hu people.
His three sons were still in their infancy, and they were all named princes.
Empress Wei had an older sister, Wei Shaoer, and her son Huo Qubing was named a champion marquis because of his military exploits, and was known as the Cavalry General.
Wei Qing is known as the general.
Empress Wei's son Liu Zheng was made the crown prince.
The Wei family's relatives started their careers with military exploits, and five of them were granted the title of marquis.
When Queen Wei's beauty grew old, Mrs. Wang of Zhao was favored, had a son, and was named King of Qi.
Mrs. Wang died young.
Mrs. Li of Zhongshan was favored and gave birth to a son, who was named King of Changyi.
Mrs. Li died young, and her brother Li Yannian was favored because of his proficiency in music and was named a co-regulator.
The so-called Xielu refers to the former singing and dancing artists.
Their brothers were all exterminated for committing adultery in the harem.
At that time, her eldest brother Li Guangli was the general of the Second Division and was conquering Dayuan. He was not killed. When he returned to Chang'an, the emperor had already killed the Li family. Later, he showed mercy to his family and named him Marquis of Haixi.
The other imperial concubines also have two sons, King Yan and King Guangling.
Their mother was unloved and died of sorrow.
After Mrs. Li's death, Yin Jie and others were alternately favored. However, they all met Emperor Wu as singing girls. They were not women from princely families with fiefdoms and should not be matched with the emperor.
Mr. Chu said: When I was appointed Langguan, I asked Zhong Lisheng, who was familiar with the old affairs of the Han family.
According to him, the Queen Mother gave birth to a daughter when she was among the people, and her father was the grandson of King Jin.
Wang Sun was dead. After Emperor Jing's death, Emperor Wu came to the throne. Only the Queen Mother was still there.
Han Wang's grandson named Yan was usually favored by Emperor Wu. He took the opportunity to talk about the Queen Mother having a daughter in Changling.
Emperor Wu said: Why didn't you tell me earlier?


Chunk 6: 
original: 
乃使使往先视之，在其家。
武帝乃自往迎取之。
跸道，先驱旄骑出横城门，乘舆驰至长陵。
当小市西入里，里门闭，暴开门，乘舆直入此里，通至金氏门外止，使武骑围其宅，为其亡走，身自往取不得也。
即使左右群臣入呼求之。
家人惊恐，女亡匿内中床下。
扶持出门，令拜谒。
武帝下车泣曰： 嚄！
大姊，何藏之深也！
诏副车载之，掉头驰还，而直入长乐宫。
行诏门着引籍，通到谒太后。
太后曰： 帝倦矣，何从来？
帝曰： 今者至长陵得臣姊，与俱来。
顾曰： 谒太后！
太后曰： 女某邪？
曰： 是也。
太后为下泣，女亦伏地泣。
武帝奉酒前为寿，奉钱千万，奴婢三百人，公田百顷，甲第，以赐姊。
太后谢曰： 为帝费焉。
于是召平阳主、南宫主、林虑主三人俱来谒见姊，因号曰修成君。
有子男一人，女一人。
男号为修成子仲，女为诸侯王王后。
此二子非刘氏，以故太后怜之。
修成子仲骄恣，陵折吏民，皆患苦之。
卫子夫立为皇后，后弟卫青字仲卿，以大将军封为长平侯。
四子，长子伉为侯世子，侯世子常侍中，贵幸。
其三弟皆封为侯，各千三百户，一曰阴安侯，二曰发干侯，三曰宜春侯，贵震天下。
天下歌之曰： 生男无喜，生女无怒，独不见卫子夫霸天下！
是时平阳主寡居，当用列侯尚主。
主与左右议长安中列侯可为夫者，皆言大将军可。
主笑曰： 此出吾家，常使令骑从我出入耳，奈何用为夫乎？
左右侍御者曰： 今大将军姊为皇后，三子为侯，富贵振动天下，主何以易之乎？
于是主乃许之。
言之皇后，令白之武帝，乃诏卫将军尚平阳公主焉。
translation: 
So I sent someone to take a look first, and she was indeed at home.
Emperor Wu went to meet her in person.
The road was cleared and no movement allowed, the cavalry that led the guard came out of the Hengcheng Gate, and Emperor Wu's chariot sped to Changling.
Entering the inner alley on the west side of the small market, the inner door was closed. Open the door forcefully. Emperor Wu's car entered the inner alley and stopped outside the Jin family's gate. He immediately sent armed cavalry to surround the house to prevent her from escaping and not being able to pick her up even if she came in person.
Then he sent his ministers on the left and right to search for him.
Everyone in the Jin family was frightened, and Jin girl hid under the bed in the inner room.
After finding her, the entourage helped her out and asked her to meet the emperor.
Emperor Wu got out of the car and cried: Ouch!
My eldest sister, why are you hiding so deeply?
He ordered the passenger car to pick her up, turned around and drove back to the city, straight into Changle Palace.
On the way, Emperor Wu ordered the people guarding the palace gate to inform the Queen Mother of his name, and he would go to see the Queen Mother as soon as the car arrived.
The Queen Mother said: Your Majesty is tired, where did you come from?
Emperor Wu said: Today I found my sister in Changling and came with her.
He turned back to his sister and said: Meet the Queen Mother!
The Queen Mother said: Is this my daughter?
Answered: Yes.
The Queen Mother burst into tears, and her daughter also fell to the ground and cried.
Emperor Wu came to congratulate the Queen Mother and his sister with wine in his hands. He gave 10 million yuan, 300 slaves, 100 hectares of land, and a high-class mansion to his sister.
The Queen Mother thanked her and said, "It's a waste of time for the Emperor."
So Princess Pingyang, Princess Nangong and Princess Linli were summoned to pay homage to her sister, and she was given the title Xiuchengjun.
She has a son and a daughter.
The son's name was Xiucheng Zizhong, and his daughter became the queen of the princes and kings.
These two children were not from the Liu family, so the Queen Mother loved them.
Xiuchengzi Zhong was arrogant and indulgent, and often bullied and oppressed officials and people. People were worried about this.
After Wei Zifu was established as queen, her younger brother Wei Qing, named Zhongqing, was granted the title of Marquis of Changping with the position of general.
He has four sons. The eldest son, Mr. Wei, is the prince who is preparing to inherit the title. He once served as the emperor's attendant, and his status is noble and very popular.
The three younger brothers of Mr. and Mrs. Wei were all granted the title of marquis, and each was given a land of 1,300 households. One was named the Marquis of Yin'an, the other was the Marquis of Fagan, and the other was the Marquis of Yichun. Their wealth shocked the world.
There is such a ballad circulating in the world: Don't be too happy when giving birth to a child, don't show your anger when giving birth to a girl, haven't you seen Wei Zifu dominate the world!
At that time, Princess Pingyang was a widow and she should choose a prince to be her husband.
The princess and her attendants discussed who among the princes in Chang'an City could be her husband, and they all said that General Wei Qing could be her husband.
The princess smiled and said: "He is a man who leaves my house. I often let him follow me on horseback. How can I let him be my husband?"
The attendants said: Now the general's sister is the queen, her three sons have all been ennobled, and her wealth has shocked the world. Why does the princess underestimate her?
So the princess agreed.
He told the queen about this, and the queen reported it to Emperor Wu, who ordered General Wei to be the husband of Princess Pingyang.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
褚先生曰：丈夫龙变。
传曰： 蛇化为龙，不变其文；家化为国，不变其姓。
丈夫当时富贵，百恶灭除，光耀荣华，贫贱之时何足累之哉！
武帝时，幸夫人尹婕é妤ú。
邢夫人号娙娥，众谓之 娙何 。
何秩比中二千石，容华秩比二千石，婕妤秩比列侯。
常从婕妤迁为皇后。
尹夫人与邢夫人同时并幸，有诏不得相见。
尹夫人自请武帝，愿望见邢夫人，帝许之。
即令他夫人饰，从御者数十人，为邢夫人来前。
尹夫人前见之，曰： 此非邢夫人身也。
帝曰： 何以言之？
对曰： 视其身貌形状，不足以当人主矣。
于是帝乃诏使邢夫人衣故衣，独身来前。
尹夫人望见之，曰： 此真是也。
于是乃低头俯而泣，自痛其不如也。
谚曰： 美女入室，恶女之仇。
褚先生曰：浴不必江海，要之去垢；马不必骐骥，要之善走；士不必贤世，要之知道；女不必贵种，要之贞好。
传曰： 女无美恶，入室见妒；士无贤不肖，入朝见嫉。
美女者，恶女之仇。岂不然哉！
钩弋夫人姓赵氏，河间人也。
得幸武帝，生子一人，昭帝是也。
武帝年七十，乃生昭帝。
昭帝立时，年五岁耳。
卫太子廢后，未复立太子。
而燕王旦上书，愿归国入宿卫。
武帝怒，立斩其使者于北阙。
上居甘泉宫，召画工图画周公负成王也。
于是左右群臣知武帝意欲立少子也。
后数日，帝谴责钩弋夫人。
夫人脱簪珥ě叩头。
帝曰： 引持去，送掖庭狱！
夫人还顾，帝曰： 趣行，女不得活！
夫人死云阳宫。
时暴风扬尘，百姓感伤。
使者夜持棺往葬之，封识其处。
其后帝闲居，问左右曰： 人言云何？
左右对曰： 人言且立其子，何去其母乎？ 帝曰： 然。
translation: 
Mr. Chu said: A husband can change endlessly like a dragon.
The biography says: If a snake becomes a dragon, it will not change its pattern; if a home becomes a country, it will not change its surname.
When a husband is rich, all his stains can be covered up and eliminated, leaving only the glory and glory. How can the things that happened when he was poor and lowly affect him?
During the reign of Emperor Wu, he doted on his wife Yin Jieyu.
Mrs. Xing's official name is Ao'e, and people call her Aohe.
Aohe's rank is equivalent to an official with a salary of two thousand dan, Ronghua's rank is equivalent to that of a prince, and Jieyu's status is equivalent to that of a prince.
Someone was once promoted from Jieyu to queen.
Mrs. Yin and Mrs. Xing were favored at the same time, but Emperor Wu ordered them not to meet each other.
Once Mrs. Yin personally requested Emperor Wu to see Mrs. Xing, and Emperor Wu agreed.
He asked another lady to dress up, followed by dozens of attendants, pretending to be Mrs. Xing and came in front of her.
Mrs. Yin walked up to her and said, "This is not Mrs. Xing."
Emperor Wu said: Why do you say this?
Mrs. Yin replied: Judging from her figure, appearance and posture, she is not good enough to match the emperor.
So Emperor Wu ordered Mrs. Xing to put on old clothes and come alone.
Mrs. Yin saw her from a distance and said: This is true.
So she lowered her head and cried, feeling sad that she was not as good as Mrs. Xing.
The proverb says: Once a beautiful woman enters the house, she becomes the enemy of the ugly woman.
Mr. Chu said: Bathing does not have to go to the rivers and seas, the main thing is to remove dirt; riding a horse does not have to be a famous horse, the main thing is to be good at running; scholars do not have to be better than ordinary people in the world, the main thing is to understand the truth; women do not have to be of noble birth, the main thing is to be chaste and beautiful.
The biography says: No matter how beautiful or ugly a woman is, she will be jealous as soon as she enters the family; whether a scholar is virtuous or not, he will be jealous as soon as he enters the court.
Beautiful women are the enemies of ugly women, isn’t it right?
Mrs. Gou Yi, surnamed Zhao, was from Hejian.
He was favored by Emperor Wu and gave birth to a son, Emperor Zhao.
Emperor Zhao was born when Emperor Wu was seventy years old.
Emperor Zhao was just five years old when he came to the throne.
After Prince Wei was deposed, there was no new crown prince.
And King Liu Dan of Yan wrote a letter, willing to return to the capital and join the palace as a guard.
Emperor Wu was very angry and immediately beheaded the envoy of King Yan in Beique.
The emperor lived in Ganquan Palace and called a painter to draw a picture of Zhou Gong carrying the king on his back.
So the officials knew that Emperor Wu wanted to make his youngest son the prince.
A few days later, Emperor Wu condemned Mrs. Gou Yi.
The lady took off her hairpin and earrings and kowtowed to apologize.
Emperor Wu said: Take her away and send her to Yeting Prison!
The lady looked back and saw Emperor Wu saying: "Go quickly, you can't live!"
The lady died in Yunyang Palace.
When he died, a storm blew up the dust, and the people were very sad.
The messenger took the coffin to the burial site at night and marked the burial place.
Afterwards, Emperor Wu asked around him in his spare time: "What do people say about this matter?"
The left and right replied: People say that since her son is to be established, why do they need to get rid of his mother? Emperor Wu said: Yes.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
是非儿曹愚人所知也。
往古国家所以乱也，由主少母壮也。
女主独居骄蹇，淫乱自恣，莫能禁也。
女不闻吕后邪？
故诸为武帝生子者，无男女，其母无不谴死，岂可谓非贤圣哉！
昭然远见，为后世计虑，固非浅闻愚儒之所及也。
谥为 武 ，岂虚哉！
translation: 
This is beyond the understanding of children and fools.
In the past, the reason why the country was in trouble was because the monarch was young and his mother was in her prime.
When a woman lives alone, she will become arrogant, arrogant and indulgent, and no one can stop her.
Haven't you heard about Queen Lu?
Therefore, all the mothers who gave birth to children for Emperor Wu, whether male or female, were not condemned and executed. Can we say that they are not sages?
Such a clear vision and careful consideration for future generations are not within the reach of those ignorant and ignorant Confucians.
The posthumous title is Wu. Is it a false name?


