Summary uses chunk [0, 2, 3, 6, 12, 12, 22, 33]

Chunk 0: 
original: 
高祖，沛丰邑中阳里人，姓刘氏，字季。
父曰太公，母曰刘媪。
其先刘媪尝息大泽之陂，梦与神遇。
是时雷电晦冥，太公往视，则见蛟龙於其上。已而有身，遂产高祖。
高祖为人，隆准而龙颜，美须髯，左股有七十二黑子。
仁而爱人，喜施，意豁如也。
常有大度，不事家人生产作业。
及壮，试为吏，为泗水亭长，廷中吏无所不狎侮。
好酒及色。
常从王媪、武负贳酒，醉卧，武负、王媪见其上常有龙，怪之。
高祖每酤留饮，酒雠数倍。
及见怪，岁竟，此两家常折券弃责。
高祖常繇咸阳，纵观，观秦皇帝，喟然太息曰： 嗟乎，大丈夫当如此也！
单父人吕公善沛令，避仇从之客，因家沛焉。
translation: 
Gaozu was born in Zhongyangli, Fengyi, Peixian County. The surname is Liu and the courtesy name is Ji.
The father's name is Taigong, and the mother's name is Liu Yu.
Previously, Lady Liu had rested on the shore of the Great Lake and met God in her sleep.
At this time, there were thunder and lightning, and the sky was dark and the earth was dark. Grandpa Gong went to see Lady Liu and saw a dragon on her body. Later Lady Liu became pregnant and gave birth to Gaozu.
Gaozu had a high nose, a plump forehead like a dragon, a beautiful beard, and seventy-two black moles on his left leg.
He is kind and loving to others, likes to give charity, and is broad-minded.
They often have lofty ambitions and do not engage in ordinary people's production operations.
When he reached his prime, he tried to be an official and became the chief of the Sishui Pavilion. Every official in the court was familiar with him and was teased by him.
He likes drinking and women.
He often borrowed wine from Wang Lao and Wu Fu and slept drunk. Wu Fu and Wang Lao often saw a dragon above him and felt very strange.
Every time Emperor Gaozu came to buy wine and stayed in the hotel to drink, the wine in the hotel sold several times more than usual.
When a strange phenomenon was discovered, at the end of the year, these two hotels often wrote off the credit debts of Gao Zu.
Emperor Gaozu once went to Xianyang to perform corvées and allowed people to watch. When he saw Qin Shihuang, he sighed and said: Ah, a real man should look like this!
Lu Gong, a single father, was friendly with the magistrate of Peixian County. In order to avoid his enemies from visiting the magistrate's house, he moved his family to Peixian County.

summary:
summary line 0: Emperor Gaozu, born Liu Ji in Peixian County, was the son of Taigong and Liu Yu. His mother became pregnant after dreaming of meeting a god while resting by a lake, during which a dragon appeared on her body. Gaozu possessed distinctive physical features including a high nose, dragon-like forehead, beautiful beard, and seventy-two black moles on his left leg. He was generous, charitable, and broad-minded, with lofty ambitions that set him apart from ordinary people.

Chunk 2: 
original: 
吕公女乃吕后也，生孝惠帝、鲁元公主。
高祖为亭长时，常告归之田。
吕后与两子居田中耨，有一老父过请饮，吕后因餔之。
老父相吕后曰： 夫人天下贵人。
令相两子，见孝惠，曰： 夫人所以贵者，乃此男也。
相鲁元，亦皆贵。
老父已去，高祖適从旁舍来，吕后具言客有过，相我子母皆大贵。高祖问，曰： 未远。
乃追及，问老父。
老父曰： 乡者夫人婴兒皆似君，君相贵不可言。
高祖乃谢曰： 诚如父言，不敢忘德。
及高祖贵，遂不知老父处。
高祖为亭长，乃以竹皮为冠，令求盗之薛治之，时时冠之，及贵常冠，所谓 刘氏冠 乃是也。
高祖以亭长为县送徒郦山，徒多道亡。
translation: 
The daughter of Duke Lu was Empress Lu, who gave birth to Emperor Xiaohui and Princess Lu Yuan.
When Emperor Gaozu was the director of the pavilion, he once asked for leave to go home.
Queen Lu and her two children were weeding in the field. An old man passed by and asked for some water. Queen Lu gave him some food.
The old man met Empress Lu and said, "My wife is a noble person in the world."
Empress Lu asked him to read the faces of the two children. The old man looked at Xiaohui and said: Madam, the reason why she is so noble is because of this child.
After seeing Lu Yuan, he was also a noble prime minister.
The old man had already left, and Gaozu happened to come to the field from someone else's house. Empress Lu told him that a guest was passing by and showed our faces to mother and son, saying that we would both be noble people in the future. Gaozu asked where my father was, and Empress Lu said: "It's not far away."
Gaozu caught up with the old man and asked him.
The old man said: I met my wife and children just now, and they are all similar to you. Your appearance is beyond words.
Emperor Gaozu thanked me and said: If it is true as my father said, I will never forget your kindness to me.
When Emperor Gaozu became famous, he didn't even know where the old man was.
When Emperor Gaozu was the director of the pavilion, he used bamboo skin as a hat. This hat was made by a thief he sent to Xue County, and he often wore it. When he became a distinguished person, he still often wore it. The so-called "Liu's crown" refers to this kind of hat.
Emperor Gaozu served as the pavilion chief and sent servants to Mount Li for the county. Many of the servants fled on the way.

summary:
summary line 1: As an adult, Gaozu served as the chief of Sishui Pavilion, where he became familiar with local officials and enjoyed drinking and women. He frequently borrowed wine from local establishments, where shopkeepers observed a dragon above him when he was drunk. During a corvée trip to Xianyang, he saw Qin Shihuang and expressed his desire to achieve similar greatness. Lu Gong, impressed by Gaozu's appearance at a gathering, married his daughter to him despite his wife's objections. This daughter became Empress Lu, mother of Emperor Xiaohui and Princess Lu Yuan.

Chunk 3: 
original: 
自度比至皆亡之，到丰西泽中，止饮，夜乃解纵所送徒。
曰： 公等皆去，吾亦从此逝矣！
徒中壮士原从者十馀人。
高祖被酒，夜径泽中，令一人行前。
行前者还报曰： 前有大蛇当径，原还。
高祖醉，曰： 壮士行，何畏！
乃前，拔剑击斩蛇。
蛇遂分为两，径开。
行数里，醉，因卧。後人来至蛇所，有一老妪夜哭。
人问何哭，妪曰： 人杀吾子，故哭之。
人曰： 妪子何为见杀？
妪曰： 吾，白帝子也，化为蛇，当道，今为赤帝子斩之，故哭。
人乃以妪为不诚，欲告之，妪因忽不见。
後人至，高祖觉。
後人告高祖，高祖乃心独喜，自负。
诸从者日益畏之。
translation: 
He estimated that by the time they reached Lishan Mountain, everyone would have fled. He went to the swamp area west of Fengyi and stopped to drink. At night, Gaozu released the slaves he had escorted.
Emperor Gaozu said: "Everyone, let's go. I'm running away from now on!"
Among the servants, there were more than ten young and strong men who were willing to follow Gaozu.
Emperor Gaozu was drunk, so he took a small road through the swamp that night and sent a man to explore the way.
The person who went out to explore the road came back and reported: There is a big snake lying across the road ahead. Please go back.
Emperor Gaozu was drunk and said: "When a hero walks, there is nothing to be afraid of!"
So he stepped forward, drew his sword and struck the snake, cutting it into two pieces, and the road was opened.
After walking for a few miles, he got drunk and lay down to sleep.
The people behind came to the place where the snake was killed and saw an old lady crying at night.
People asked why she was crying. The old lady said: Someone killed my son, so I cried.
People said again: Old lady, why was your son killed?
The old lady said: My son, the son of the White Emperor, turned into a snake and was lying on the road. Now he was killed by the son of the Red Emperor, so I cried.
People thought the old lady was dishonest and wanted to give her a hard time. The old lady suddenly disappeared.
Those who were left behind arrived at the place where Gaozu was resting, and Gaozu had already woken up.
They told Gaozu what had just happened. Gaozu was secretly happy and felt arrogant.
Those who followed him grew in awe of him.

summary:
summary line 2: While serving as pavilion chief, Gaozu encountered an old man who predicted that Empress Lu and their children would become noble, and that Gaozu's own appearance was beyond description. When escorting servants to Mount Li, many fled, so Gaozu released the remaining servants and became a fugitive. Drunk one night, he killed a large snake blocking his path. An old woman later claimed the snake was the son of the White Emperor, killed by the son of the Red Emperor, which made Gaozu secretly proud and increased his followers' awe of him.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
於是少年豪吏如萧、曹、樊哙等皆为收沛子弟二三千人，攻胡陵、方与，还守丰。
秦二世二年，陈涉之将周章军西至戏而还。
燕、赵、齐、魏皆自立为王。
项氏起吴。
秦泗川监平将兵围丰，二日，出与战，破之。
命雍齿守丰，引兵之薛。
泗州守壮败於薛，走至戚，沛公左司马得泗川守壮，杀之。
沛公还军亢父，至方与，未战。
陈王使魏人周市略地。
周市使人谓雍齿曰： 丰，故梁徙也。
今魏地已定者数十城。齿今下魏，魏以齿为侯守丰。
不下，且屠丰。
雍齿雅不欲属沛公，及魏招之，即反为魏守丰。
沛公引兵攻丰，不能取。
沛公病，还之沛。
沛公怨雍齿与丰子弟叛之，闻东阳甯君、秦嘉立景驹为假王，在留，乃往从之，欲请兵以攻丰。
translation: 
So the young men and powerful officials, such as Xiao He, Cao Shen, Fan Kuai and others, recruited soldiers for Pei Gong. They gathered two to three thousand people to attack Hu Ling and Fang Yu, and then returned to defend Fengyi.
In the second year of Qin II, General Chen Sheng led Zhou Zhang's army to the west to play in the water and return.
Yan, Zhao, Qi, and Wei all established themselves as kings.
Xiang Liang and Xiang Yu raised troops in Wu.
Qin Ping, the governor of Sishui County, led his troops to surround Feng. Two days later, Peigong sent troops to fight and defeated the Qin army.
Duke Pei ordered Yong Chi to guard Fengyi and led his troops to Xue.
Zhuang, the governor of Sishui County, was defeated in Xue and fled to Qi. Pei Gongzuo Sima captured Zhuang, the governor of Sishui County, and killed him.
Pei Gong returned to the army to fight against his father. When he arrived, there was no fighting.
King Chen Sheng of Chen sent Wei people to Zhoushi to attack the city and seize the territory.
The envoy from Zhoushi said to Yong Chi: "Feng, it turns out that King Liang once moved here."
Now Wei has captured dozens of cities. If you, Yongchi, surrender to Wei, Wei will make you Yongchi a marquis and still garrison Fengyi.
If you don't surrender, Fengyi will be slaughtered with blood.
Yong Chi was originally very reluctant to submit to Pei Gong. When Wei Guo surrendered, he betrayed Pei Gong and defended Fengyi for Wei Guo.
Duke Pei led his troops to attack Feng, but failed to capture it.
Pei Gong fell ill and returned to Pei County.
Pei Gong resented that Yong Chi and Fengyi's children had betrayed him. When he heard that Dongyang Ningjun and Qin Jiali had made Jingju the false king and lived in Liu County, he attached himself to them and wanted to borrow troops to attack Fengyi.

summary:
summary line 3: During the Qin II period, Chen Sheng's rebellion inspired the magistrate of Peixian County to consider revolt. Following advice from Xiao He and Cao Shen, Fan Kuai was sent to summon Liu Ji. After the magistrate reneged, the elders killed him and welcomed Liu Ji, who became Duke of Pei after initially declining. They raised two to three thousand soldiers, attacked nearby areas, and returned to defend Fengyi. When Yong Chi betrayed Pei Gong by surrendering to Wei, Pei Gong failed to recapture Fengyi and sought help from Xiang Liang, who provided additional troops.

Chunk 12: 
original: 
乃以宛守为殷侯，封陈恢千户。
引兵西，无不下者。
至丹水，高武侯鰓、襄侯王陵降西陵。
还攻胡阳，遇番君别将梅鋗，与皆，降析、郦。
遣魏人甯昌使秦，使者未来。
是时章邯已以军降项羽於赵矣。
初，项羽与宋义北救赵，及项羽杀宋义，代为上将军，诸将黥布皆属，破秦将王离军，降章邯，诸侯皆附。
及赵高已杀二世，使人来，欲约分王关中。沛公以为诈，乃用张良计，使郦生、陆贾往说秦将，啗以利，因袭攻武关，破之。
又与秦军战於蓝田南，益张疑兵旗帜，诸所过毋得掠卤，秦人憙，秦军解，因大破之。
又战其北，大破之。
乘胜，遂破之。
汉元年十月，沛公兵遂先诸侯至霸上。
秦王子婴素车白马，系颈以组，封皇帝玺符节，降轵道旁。
诸将或言诛秦王。
沛公曰： 始怀王遣我，固以能宽容；且人已服降，又杀之，不祥。
乃以秦王属吏，遂西入咸阳。
欲止宫休舍，樊哙、张良谏，乃封秦重宝财物府库，还军霸上。
召诸县父老豪桀曰： 父老苦秦苛法久矣，诽谤者族，偶语者弃巿。
吾与诸侯约，先入关者王之，吾当王关中。
与父老约，法三章耳：杀人者死，伤人及盗抵罪。
馀悉除去秦法。
translation: 
He made the governor of Nanyang County the Marquis of Yin and granted Chen Hui a thousand households.
When the troops are led westward, no one will fail to surrender.
Arriving at Danshui, Gaowu Houyi and Xianghou Wangling surrendered in Xiling.
When he returned to attack Hu Yang, he met Fan Jun's general Mei Rong, and together with him, they forced Xixian and Lixian to surrender.
Ningchang of Wei was sent as an envoy to Qin Guanzhong, but the envoy did not come back.
By this time, Zhang Han had led the entire army to surrender to Xiang Yu in Zhao.
At first, Xiang Yu and Song Yi marched north to rescue Zhao. When Xiang Yu killed Song Yi, he replaced him as general. Many generals, such as Qing Bu, were subordinate to Xiang Yu. He defeated Qin general Wang Li's army and made Zhang Han surrender, and all the princes joined him.
When Zhao Gao had killed Qin II, he sent people to see Pei Gong and wanted to make an agreement to carve up Guanzhong and claim the throne. Pei Gong thought it was a fraud, so he adopted Zhang Liang's strategy and sent Li Sheng and Lu Jia to lobby the Qin generals. They lured them with their own interests and took the opportunity to attack Wuguan and break the pass.
He also fought with the Qin army in the south of Lantian. He added more suspects and planted more flags. No looting was allowed in the places he passed. The people of Qin were very happy. The Qin army collapsed and the Qin army was defeated.
They fought again in the north of Lantian and defeated the Qin army again.
Taking advantage of the victory, he pursued and completely defeated the Qin army.
In October of the first year of the Han Dynasty, Pei Gong's army arrived at Bashang before the princes.
The Prince of Qin rode on a plain carriage with a white horse, tied his neck with a ribbon, sealed the emperor's seal and talisman, and surrendered beside Zhi Road.
Some generals advocated killing the King of Qin.
Pei Gong said: King Huai of Chu sent me originally because I can be tolerant. Besides, it is unlucky to kill someone after they have already surrendered.
So he handed the King of Qin over to the officials and headed west into Xianyang.
Pei Gong wanted to stay in the palace to rest, but after being persuaded by Fan Kuai and Zhang Liang, he sealed off the valuable treasures, property and storehouses in the Qin Palace and returned to the army.
He summoned the elders and heroes from each county and said: "The elders have suffered from the harsh punishments of the Qin Dynasty for a long time. Those who slander the government will be exterminated, and those who gather to discuss will be beheaded in the streets."
I made an agreement with the princes that whoever enters Guanzhong first will be crowned king in Guanzhong, and I should be crowned king in Guanzhong.
It was agreed with the elders that the law has only three chapters: the death penalty for murder, and the punishment for injury and robbery commensurate with the crime committed.
All other laws of the Qin Dynasty were abolished.

summary:
summary line 4: Pei Gong joined forces with Xiang Yu, and together they achieved military successes while suffering setbacks. After Xiang Liang's death, King Huai of Chu appointed Pei Gong as governor of Dang County and ordered him to march west into Guanzhong, promising kingship to whoever entered first. Despite Xiang Yu's desire to join, King Huai's advisors favored Pei Gong's reputation as a tolerant elder. Pei Gong collected scattered troops, defeated Qin forces, and through strategic decisions including sparing the governor of Nanyang County, gained widespread surrenders.

Chunk 12: 
original: 
乃以宛守为殷侯，封陈恢千户。
引兵西，无不下者。
至丹水，高武侯鰓、襄侯王陵降西陵。
还攻胡阳，遇番君别将梅鋗，与皆，降析、郦。
遣魏人甯昌使秦，使者未来。
是时章邯已以军降项羽於赵矣。
初，项羽与宋义北救赵，及项羽杀宋义，代为上将军，诸将黥布皆属，破秦将王离军，降章邯，诸侯皆附。
及赵高已杀二世，使人来，欲约分王关中。沛公以为诈，乃用张良计，使郦生、陆贾往说秦将，啗以利，因袭攻武关，破之。
又与秦军战於蓝田南，益张疑兵旗帜，诸所过毋得掠卤，秦人憙，秦军解，因大破之。
又战其北，大破之。
乘胜，遂破之。
汉元年十月，沛公兵遂先诸侯至霸上。
秦王子婴素车白马，系颈以组，封皇帝玺符节，降轵道旁。
诸将或言诛秦王。
沛公曰： 始怀王遣我，固以能宽容；且人已服降，又杀之，不祥。
乃以秦王属吏，遂西入咸阳。
欲止宫休舍，樊哙、张良谏，乃封秦重宝财物府库，还军霸上。
召诸县父老豪桀曰： 父老苦秦苛法久矣，诽谤者族，偶语者弃巿。
吾与诸侯约，先入关者王之，吾当王关中。
与父老约，法三章耳：杀人者死，伤人及盗抵罪。
馀悉除去秦法。
translation: 
He made the governor of Nanyang County the Marquis of Yin and granted Chen Hui a thousand households.
When the troops are led westward, no one will fail to surrender.
Arriving at Danshui, Gaowu Houyi and Xianghou Wangling surrendered in Xiling.
When he returned to attack Hu Yang, he met Fan Jun's general Mei Rong, and together with him, they forced Xixian and Lixian to surrender.
Ningchang of Wei was sent as an envoy to Qin Guanzhong, but the envoy did not come back.
By this time, Zhang Han had led the entire army to surrender to Xiang Yu in Zhao.
At first, Xiang Yu and Song Yi marched north to rescue Zhao. When Xiang Yu killed Song Yi, he replaced him as general. Many generals, such as Qing Bu, were subordinate to Xiang Yu. He defeated Qin general Wang Li's army and made Zhang Han surrender, and all the princes joined him.
When Zhao Gao had killed Qin II, he sent people to see Pei Gong and wanted to make an agreement to carve up Guanzhong and claim the throne. Pei Gong thought it was a fraud, so he adopted Zhang Liang's strategy and sent Li Sheng and Lu Jia to lobby the Qin generals. They lured them with their own interests and took the opportunity to attack Wuguan and break the pass.
He also fought with the Qin army in the south of Lantian. He added more suspects and planted more flags. No looting was allowed in the places he passed. The people of Qin were very happy. The Qin army collapsed and the Qin army was defeated.
They fought again in the north of Lantian and defeated the Qin army again.
Taking advantage of the victory, he pursued and completely defeated the Qin army.
In October of the first year of the Han Dynasty, Pei Gong's army arrived at Bashang before the princes.
The Prince of Qin rode on a plain carriage with a white horse, tied his neck with a ribbon, sealed the emperor's seal and talisman, and surrendered beside Zhi Road.
Some generals advocated killing the King of Qin.
Pei Gong said: King Huai of Chu sent me originally because I can be tolerant. Besides, it is unlucky to kill someone after they have already surrendered.
So he handed the King of Qin over to the officials and headed west into Xianyang.
Pei Gong wanted to stay in the palace to rest, but after being persuaded by Fan Kuai and Zhang Liang, he sealed off the valuable treasures, property and storehouses in the Qin Palace and returned to the army.
He summoned the elders and heroes from each county and said: "The elders have suffered from the harsh punishments of the Qin Dynasty for a long time. Those who slander the government will be exterminated, and those who gather to discuss will be beheaded in the streets."
I made an agreement with the princes that whoever enters Guanzhong first will be crowned king in Guanzhong, and I should be crowned king in Guanzhong.
It was agreed with the elders that the law has only three chapters: the death penalty for murder, and the punishment for injury and robbery commensurate with the crime committed.
All other laws of the Qin Dynasty were abolished.

summary:
summary line 5: Pei Gong's army arrived at Bashang in October of the first Han year, where the King of Qin surrendered. After initially wanting to rest in the palace, Pei Gong heeded advice to seal the treasures and return to camp. He established the three-chapter law code, abolished harsh Qin laws, and won the people's support by refusing their offerings. When Xiang Yu's forces approached, Pei Gong's subordinate Cao Wushang informed Xiang Yu of his intentions, but Xiang Bo's intervention and Pei Gong's apology at Hongmen prevented conflict.

Chunk 22: 
original: 
使韩信等辑河北赵地，连燕齐，君王乃复走荥阳，未晚也。
如此，则楚所备者多，力分，汉得休，复与之战，破楚必矣。
汉王从其计，出军宛叶间，与黥布行收兵。
项羽闻汉王在宛，果引兵南。
汉王坚壁不与战。
是时彭越渡睢水，与项声、薛公战下邳，彭越大破楚军。
项羽乃引兵东击彭越。汉王亦引兵北军成皋。
项羽已破走彭越，闻汉王复军成皋，乃复引兵西，拔荥阳，诛周苛、枞公，而虏韩王信，遂围成皋。
汉王跳，独与滕公共车出成皋玉门，北渡河，驰宿脩武。
自称使者，晨驰入张耳、韩信壁，而夺之军。乃使张耳北益收兵赵地，使韩信东击齐。
汉王得韩信军，则复振。
引兵临河，南飨军小脩武南，欲复战。
郎中郑忠乃说止汉王，使高垒深堑，勿与战。
汉王听其计，使卢绾、刘贾将卒二万人，骑数百，渡白马津，入楚地，与彭越复击破楚军燕郭西，遂复下梁地十馀城。
淮阴已受命东，未渡平原。
汉王使郦生往说齐王田广，广叛楚，与汉和，共击项羽。
韩信用蒯通计，遂袭破齐。
齐王烹郦生，东走高密。
项羽闻韩信已举河北兵破齐、赵，且欲击楚，则使龙且、周兰往击之。
韩信与战，骑将灌婴击，大破楚军，杀龙且。
齐王广奔彭越。
当此时，彭越将兵居梁地，往来苦楚兵，绝其粮食。
四年，项羽乃谓海春侯大司马曹咎曰： 谨守成皋。
若汉挑战，慎勿与战，无令得东而已。
我十五日必定梁地，复从将军。
乃行击陈留、外黄、睢阳，下之。
translation: 
It is not too late to send Han Xin and others to secure Zhao's territory north of the Yellow River and unite with Yan and Qi. It will not be too late for the king to go to Xingyang again.
In this way, the Chu army is fortified in many directions and its forces are dispersed. The Han army can rest and reorganize. If it fights against the Chu army again, it will definitely be able to defeat the Chu army.
The king of Han adopted his strategy and sent troops between Wan and Ye counties, and together with Yingbu gathered troops during the march.
Xiang Yu heard that the King of Han was in Wan County, so he led his troops southward.
The king of Han stood firm and refused to fight with him.
At this time, Peng Yue crossed the Suishui River and fought with Xiang Sheng and Xue Gong in Xiapi. Peng Yue defeated the Chu army.
So Xiang Yu led his army to the east to attack Peng Yue, and the king of Han also led his troops to the north to garrison Chenggao.
Xiang Yu had already won the victory and drove away Peng Yue. When he learned that the Han army was stationed in Chenggao again, he led his troops to the west and conquered Xingyang. He killed Zhou Ke and Song Gong, captured Han Wangxin, and then besieged Chenggao.
The King of Han fled, and alone and with Teng Gong in a carriage, they left the Yumen of Chenggao, crossed the Yellow River to the north, and rushed to Xiuwu to spend the night.
Claiming to be an envoy, he rushed into Zhang Er and Han Xin's camp in the morning and captured their troops. He then sent Zhang Er to Zhao in the north to gather more troops, and Han Xin to attack Qi eastward.
The king of Han got Han Xin's army, and his military power was revived.
He led his army to the bank of the Yellow River and marched south. He fed and drank the soldiers south of Xiaoxiuwu, intending to fight Xiang Yu again.
The doctor Zheng Zhong dissuaded the King of Han and told him not to fight with Xiang Yu.
The King of Han adopted Zheng Zhong's strategy and sent Lu Wan and Liu Jia to lead 20,000 troops and hundreds of knights across Baima Jin and enter the Chu land. They and Peng Yue defeated the Chu army in the west of Yan County, and then captured more than ten cities in Liang.
The Marquis of Huaiyin had accepted the order to march eastward and did not cross the Yellow River in the plains.
The king of Han sent Li Sheng to persuade Qi Wang Tian Guang. Tian Guang betrayed Chu, made peace with Han, and attacked Xiang Yu together.
Han Xin adopted Kuai Tong's strategy and launched a surprise attack, defeating Qi.
King Peng of Qi killed Li Sheng and fled eastward to Gaomi.
Xiang Yu heard that Han Xin had used all the troops north of the Yellow River to defeat Qi and Zhao, and was about to attack the Chu army, so he sent Long Qie and Zhou Lan to stop the attack.
Han Xin fought with Chu, and the cavalry general Guan Ying cooperated to attack, defeated the Chu army, and killed Long Qie.
King Tian Guang of Qi defected to Peng Yue.
At this time, Peng Yue led his troops to station in Liang, harassing the Chu army and cutting off its food.
In the fourth year, Xiang Yu said to Cao Jiu, the Grand Sima of Haichunhou: Guard Chenggao carefully.
If the Han army challenges, be careful. Don't accept the challenge, just don't let the Han army advance eastward.
I will definitely pacify Liang in fifteen days and then meet with the general.
So he marched to attack Chenliu, Waihuang, and Suiyang, and captured them all.

summary:
summary line 6: Xiang Yu later broke the agreement, making Pei Gong King of Han in Ba, Shu, and Hanzhong. The King of Han used Han Xin's strategy to march eastward, attacking and defeating King Yong Zhanghan. Over subsequent years, the Han and Chu forces engaged in prolonged warfare with shifting fortunes. The King of Han survived assassination attempts, built alliances, and eventually defeated Xiang Yu at Gaixia, where Xiang Yu's forces heard Chu songs and were routed.

Chunk 33: 
original: 
代地吾所急也，故封豨为列侯，以相国守代，今乃与王黄等劫掠代地！
代地吏民非有罪也。其赦代吏民。
九月，上自东往击之。
至邯郸，上喜曰： 豨不南据邯郸而阻漳水，吾知其无能为也。
闻豨将皆故贾人也，上曰： 吾知所以与之。
乃多以金啗豨将，豨将多降者。
十一年，高祖在邯郸诛豨等未毕，豨将侯敞将万馀人游行，王黄军曲逆，张春渡河击聊城。
汉使将军郭蒙与齐将击，大破之。
太尉周勃道太原入，定代地。
至马邑，马邑不下，即攻残之。
豨将赵利守东垣，高祖攻之，不下。
月馀，卒骂高祖，高祖怒。
城降，令出骂者斩之，不骂者原之。
於是乃分赵山北，立子恆以为代王，都晋阳。
春，淮阴侯韩信谋反关中，夷三族。
夏，梁王彭越谋反，废迁蜀；复欲反，遂夷三族。
立子恢为梁王，子友为淮阳王。
秋七月，淮南王黥布反，东并荆王刘贾地，北渡淮，楚王交走入薛。
高祖自往击之。立子长为淮南王。
十二年，十月，高祖已击布军会甀，布走，令别将追之。
高祖还归，过沛，留。
translation: 
Daidi is a place that I value, so I made Chen Xi a prince and guarded Daidi in the name of the Prime Minister. Now he and Wang Huang and others plundered Daidi.
The officials and people of Dai are not guilty, so forgive the officials and people of Dai.
In September, Emperor Gaozu himself went east to attack Chen Xi.
Arriving at Handan, Emperor Gaozu said happily: "If Chen Xi doesn't go south to defend Handan, and relies on the Zhang River as a formation, I know he has no ability."
Hearing that Chen Xi's generals were all former merchants, Emperor Gaozu said: I know how to deal with them.
So he used gold to lure Chen Xi's generals, and many of Chen Xi's generals surrendered.
In the eleventh year, Emperor Gaozu's crusade against Chen Kuang and others in Handan was not over yet. Chen Kuang's general Hou Chang led more than 10,000 people to fight on the move. Wang Huang garrisoned in reverse, and Zhang Chun crossed the Yellow River to attack Liaocheng.
Han sent General Guo Meng and the generals of Qi to attack and defeated them.
Taiwei Zhou Bo marched from Taiyuan and pacified Daidi.
When they arrived at Mayi, they failed to capture it for a while, but later they attacked it and destroyed the city.
Chen Xi's general Zhao Li defended Dongyuan, but Gaozu attacked Dongyuan but failed to capture it.
More than a month later, Zhao Li's soldiers insulted Gaozu, and Gaozu was very angry.
Dongyuan surrendered and ordered those who insulted Gaozu to be beheaded and executed. Those who did not insult Gaozu were spared.
So he set aside the area north of Changshan in Zhao State, named his son Liu Heng the acting king, and established Jinyang as the capital.
In the spring, Han Xin, the Marquis of Huaiyin, rebelled against Guanzhong and executed three of Han Xin's clans.
In the summer, Liang Wang Peng Yue rebelled, abolished his title, and moved to Shu.
He wanted to rebel again, so he executed three of his clansmen. His son Liu Hui was named King of Liang, and his son Liu You was named King of Huaiyang.
In autumn and July, King Yingbu of Huainan rebelled and annexed the land of Liu Jia, King of Jing, to the east, and crossed the Huai River to the north. Liu Jiao, King of Chu, fled to Xue County.
Emperor Gaozu personally went to attack him and named his son Liu Chang the King of Huainan.
In October of the twelfth year, Emperor Gaozu defeated Yingbu's army in Huizhen, and Yingbu fled. Gaozu ordered other generals to pursue him.
Emperor Gaozu led his army back, passed by Peixian County, and stopped.

summary:
summary line 7: After establishing the Han Dynasty, Gaozu faced rebellions from various kings including Zang Tu, Han Xin, Chen Xi, and Yingbu. He personally led campaigns against them, executing or defeating the rebels. During a visit to his hometown Peixian County, Gaozu composed the famous Song of the Great Wind and exempted the county from corvée service. He died from an arrow wound sustained during the campaign against Yingbu, refusing medical treatment by declaring his fate determined by heaven. Before death, he designated successors for key positions, including Cao Shen, Wang Ling, Chen Ping, and Zhou Bo. Gaozu was buried in Changling with the posthumous title Emperor Gao, having established the Han Dynasty from humble beginnings.

