Chunk 0: 
original: 
第五伦字伯鱼，京兆长陵人也。
其先齐诸田，诸田徙园陵者多，故以次第为氏。
伦少介然有义行。
王莽末，盗贼起，宗族闾里争往附之。
伦乃依险固筑营壁，有贼，辄奋厉其众，引强持满以拒之，铜马、赤眉之属前后数十辈，皆不能下。
伦始以营长诣郡尹鲜于褒，褒见而异之，署为吏。
后褒坐事左转高唐令，临去，握伦臂诀曰 恨相知晚
伦后为乡啬夫，平徭赋，理怨结，得人欢心。
自以为久宦不达，遂将家属客河东，变名姓，自称王伯齐，载盐往来太原、上党，所过辄为粪除而去，陌上号为道士，亲友故人莫知其处。
数年，鲜于褒荐之于京兆尹阎兴，兴即召伦为主簿。
时长安铸钱多奸巧，乃署伦为督铸钱掾，领长安市。
伦平铨衡，正斗斛，市无阿枉，百姓悦服。
每读诏书，常叹息曰 此圣主也，一见决矣 等辈笑之曰 尔说将尚不下，安能动万乘乎 伦曰 未遇知己，道不同故耳
建武二十七年，举孝廉，补淮阳国医工长，随王之国。
光武召见，甚异之。
二十九年，从王朝京师，随官属得会见，帝问以政事，伦因此酧对政道，帝大悦。
明日，复特召入，与语至夕。
帝戏谓伦曰 闻卿为吏篣妇公，不过从兄饭，宁有之邪 伦对曰 臣三娶妻皆无父。
少遭饑乱，实不敢妄过人食 帝大笑。
伦出，有诏以为扶夷长，未到官，追拜会稽太守。
虽为二千石，躬自斩刍养马，妻执炊爨。
translation: 
◆The fifth Lun biography, the fifth Lun, whose courtesy name is Boyu, was born in Changling, Jingzhao.
His ancestors had the surname Tian from Qi State. Later, many people with the surname Tian moved to Yuanling, so they used the order as their surname.
Fifth Lun was very upright and virtuous when he was young.
In the last years of Wang Mang's life, thieves and thieves appeared in droves, and people from the same clan and fellow villagers rushed to join him.
Fifth Lun then built a strong fortress based on the dangerous terrain. When thieves came, he mobilized all the villagers to defend themselves with strong crossbows. Dozens of generations like Bronze Horse and Red Eyebrow came to attack, but they could not capture it.
Wu Lun began to contact the county Yin Xianyu Bao as a battalion commander. When Xianyu Bao met him, he felt that he was different, so he used him as an official.
Later, Xian Yubao made a mistake and was demoted to Gaotang County Magistrate. Before leaving, he held Wu Lun's hand and said, "I just regret that it was too late to meet each other."
Wu Lun later became a stingy man in the village, collecting taxes fairly, sending out servants, and mediating civil disputes, and was very popular among the people.
He himself thought that he would not be able to be a high official for a long time, so he moved his family to Hedong, changed his name, and called himself Wang Boqi. He carried salt between Taiyuan and Shangdang, and the places he passed must be cleaned before leaving. The villagers called him a Taoist priest, and his relatives and friends did not know where he lived.
A few years later, Xian Yubao recommended Wu Lun to Jingzhao Yin Yanxing, and Yan Xing called Wu Lun to be the chief bookkeeper.
At that time, most of the people who minted coins in Chang'an resorted to fraud, so Yan Xing ordered Wu Lun to be the official who supervised the minting of coins and was in charge of the Chang'an market.
The fifth Lun rectified the substandard scales and buckets. From then on, there was fair trade in the market, there were no big scales and small buckets, and the people were convinced.
Every time Wu Lun read the edict, he often sighed: This is the wise emperor, and my fate will be decided by just meeting him. People of his generation laughed at him and said: "You can't convince the state generals, how can you move the Emperor Wancheng?" Lun said: "I haven't met a close friend, it's just because of different ways."
In the twenty-seventh year of Jianwu's reign, Wu Lun was promoted to Xiaolian and promoted to the chief medical officer of Huaiyang State Medical University. He followed the king to Kyoto.
Emperor Guangwu felt strange after summoning him.
In the twenty-ninth year, he and the king had the opportunity to meet with the capital and accompanying officials. The emperor asked them about political affairs. Wu Lun took this opportunity to answer questions about the way to govern. The emperor was very happy to hear this.
The next day, he specially called in and Wu Lun to talk from day to night.
The emperor jokingly said to Fifth Lun: I heard that when you were an official, you beat your father-in-law and refused to feed your cousin. Is this true? The Fifth Lun replied: I have married three times, but my wives have no father.
I suffered from famine when I was young, so I really didn’t dare to invite anyone to eat. The emperor laughed.
After Wu Lun came out, there was an edict ordering him to be the governor of Fuyi. Before he arrived at the official office, he was chased and reassigned to be the governor of Kuaiji.
Although he made two thousand dan, he cut grass to feed the horses himself, and his wife cooked the food.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
受俸裁留一月粮，馀皆贱贸与民之贫羸者。
会稽俗多淫祀，好卜筮。
民常以牛祭神，百姓财产以之困匮，其自食牛肉而不以荐祠者，发病且死先为牛鸣，前后郡将莫敢禁。
伦到宫，移书属县，晓告百姓。
其巫祝有依托鬼神诈怖愚民，皆案论之。
有妄屠牛者，吏辄行罚。
民初颇恐惧，或祝诅妄言，伦案之愈急，后遂断绝，百姓以安。
永平五年，坐法征，老小攀车叩马，啼呼相随，日裁行数里，不得前，伦乃伪止亭舍，阴乘船去。
众知，复追之。
及诣廷尉，吏民上书守阙者千馀人。
是时，显宗方案梁松事，亦多为松讼者。
帝患之，诏公车诸为梁氏及会稽太守上书者勿复受。
会帝幸廷尉录囚徒，得免归田里。
身自耕种，不交通人物。
数岁，拜为宕渠令，显拔乡佐玄贺，贺后为九江、沛二郡守，以清洁称，所在化行，终于大司农。
伦在职四年，迁蜀郡太守。
蜀地肥饶，人吏富实，掾史家资多至千万，皆鲜车怒马，以财货自达。
伦悉简其丰赡者遣还之，更选孤贫志行之人以处曹任，于是争赇抑绝，文职修理。
所举吏多至九卿、二千石，时以为知人。
视事七岁，肃宗初立，擢自远郡，代牟融为司空。
帝以明德太后故，尊崇舅氏马廖，兄弟并居职任。
廖等倾身交结，冠盖之士争赴趣之。
伦以后族过盛，欲令朝廷抑损其权，上疏曰：臣闻忠不隐讳，直不避害。
不胜愚狷，昧死自表。
《书》曰 臣无作威作福，其害于而家，凶于而国 传曰 大夫无境外之交，束修之馈 近代光烈皇后，虽友爱天至，而卒使阴就归国，徙废阴兴宾客。其后梁、窦之家，互有非法，明帝即位，竟多诛之。
自是洛中无复权威，书记请托一皆断绝。
translation: 
After receiving the salary, only one month's rations were kept, and the rest was sold to the poor people at low prices.
The custom in Kuaiji is to offer sacrifices to ghosts and like to tell fortunes.
The people often killed cows to sacrifice to the gods, which made the people's property poor. Those who ate beef instead of sacrificing to ghosts and gods would make cows bray when they were sick and about to die, and the successive county governors did not dare to stop it.
After Wu Lun took office, he issued an official document to the county and informed the people.
Any witch who uses ghosts and gods to defraud the people will be punished in accordance with the law.
Anyone who kills farm cattle indiscriminately will be punished by officials according to the law.
The people were a little scared at first, some witches cursed and talked nonsense, and the Fifth Lun pursued them closely. Later, the evil trend disappeared and the people were able to live in peace.
In the fifth year of Yongping, Wu Lun was transferred because of a violation of the law. People, old and young, climbed on carts, knelt on horses, and cried to see each other off. They could only walk a few miles every day and could not move forward. He pretended to rest in a pavilion, but secretly took a boat and left.
After everyone found out, they chased after him again.
When they arrived at Tingwei's place, more than a thousand officials and people sent letters to guard the yamen gate.
At this time, Xianzong was trying Liang Song's case, and many people expressed their grievances for Liang Song.
The emperor was a little worried and ordered that anyone who wrote a letter on behalf of the Liang family and the prefect of Kuaiji would not be allowed to accept the carriage.
Later, when the emperor went to the court to review and record the prisoners' crimes, Wu Lun was released and returned to the fields.
Farm by yourself and don't interact with others.
A few years later, the fifth Lun worshiped him as the magistrate of Danqu County and promoted Xuanhe, his hometown minister.
Wu Lun served for four years and was promoted to the prefect of Shu County.
The land in Sichuan is fertile and the products are rich. The people and officials are very wealthy and prosperous. His family has tens of millions of dollars. They all ride in new cars, ride fat horses, and express themselves with gifts of property.
The Fifth Lun selected those wealthy officials to be dismissed and returned to their families, and then selected poor and virtuous people to be promoted to Cao officials. From then on, the trend of bribery was eliminated, and civil servants were able to serve the government with integrity.
Most of the officials recommended by the Fifth Lun were nine ministers and two thousand stones. At that time, they were considered to know people well and make good use of them.
In the seventh year of Wu Lun's tenure as governor, Suzong came to the throne and promoted some people from distant counties. Wu Lun replaced Mou Rong as Sikong.
Because of the relationship with the Empress Dowager Mingde, the emperor respected his uncle Ma Liao, and the Ma brothers all held important positions.
Maliao and others put down their identities and made friends, and some prominent figures rushed to join them.
Wu Lun believed that the Hou clan was too powerful and wanted the court to reduce their power, so he went to Shudao: I heard that loyal ministers do not hide their opinions and direct ministers do not avoid danger.
Therefore, regardless of Yu's impatience, he risked death to get on this list.
Ancient books say: Doctors should not cross the border to make friends, and do not send silk and dried meat to ghosts. In modern times, although the martyr queens were very friendly by nature, they finally returned to their country from Yin and moved away the guests of Yinxing. Later, both the Liang and Dou families did some illegal things, and Emperor Ming actually killed many people when he came to the throne.
From then on, there were no more powerful relatives in Luoyang, and all requests from secretaries disappeared.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
又譬诸外戚曰 苦身待士，不如为国，戴盆望天，事不两施 臣常刻著五臧，书诸绅带。
而今之议者，复以马氏为言。
窃闻卫尉廖以布三千匹，城门校尉防以钱三百万，私赡三辅衣冠，知与不知，莫不毕给。
又闻腊日亦遗其在洛中者钱各五千，越骑校尉光，腊用羊三百头，米四百斛，肉五千斤。
臣愚以为不应经义，惶恐不敢不以闻。
陛下情欲厚之，亦宜所以安之。
臣今言此，诚欲上忠陛下，下全后家，裁蒙省察。
及马防为车骑将军，当出征西羌，伦又上疏曰：臣愚以为贵戚可封侯以富之，不当职事以任之。
何者。
绳以法则伤恩，私以亲则违宪。
伏闻马防今当西征，臣以太后恩仁，陛下至孝，恐卒有纤介，难为意爱。
闻防请杜笃为从事中郎，多赐财帛。
笃为乡里所废，客居美阳，女弟为马氏妻，恃此交通，在所县令苦其不法，收系论之。
今来防所，议者咸致疑怪，况乃以为从事，将恐议及朝廷。
今宜为选贤能以辅助之，不可复今防自请人，有损事望。
苟有所怀，敢不自闻。
并不见省用。
伦虽峭直，然常疾俗吏苛刻。
及为三公，值帝长者，屡有善政，乃上疏褒称盛美，因以劝成风德，曰：
陛下即位，躬天然之德，体晏晏之姿，以宽弘临下，出入四年，前岁诛刺史、二千石贪残者六人。
斯皆明圣所鉴，非群下所及。
然诏书每下宽和而政急不解，务存节俭而奢侈不止者，咎在俗敝，群下不称故也。
translation: 
Xiaoyu also said to his relatives: It is better to contribute to the country than to work hard to recruit talents; you cannot look at the sky while wearing a basin, and you cannot take into account both public and private matters. The ministers often kept these lessons in mind and wrote them on their belts and recited them often.
But now the most talked about is Ma.
I heard privately that Wei Wei Ma Liao used 3,000 bolts of cloth, and City Gate School Wei Ma Fang used 3 million coins to privately supply officials near the capital. Regardless of whether they knew anyone or not, they all gave it to them.
I also heard that officials in Luoyang were also given five thousand yuan each in the twelfth lunar month. Ma Guangla, the lieutenant of the Yue Cavalry School, rewarded his cronies with 300 sheep, 400 hu of rice, and 5,000 kilograms of meat.
In my humble opinion, I thought this was an abnormal behavior, and I was so frightened that I didn't dare not report it.
If Your Majesty wants to treat them favorably for personal reasons, you should also try to make them feel comfortable in their positions.
When I say this, I am indeed calling upon Your Majesty to protect the Queen's family, and I hope Your Majesty will look into it.
Later, Ma Fang became a general of chariots and cavalry and was preparing to attack the Western Qiang. Wu Lun went to Shudao again and said: I think that noble relatives can be made rich by making them marquis, so they should not be given important tasks.
Why?
Once something goes wrong, bringing someone to justice will hurt the favor, and caring for one's private affairs will violate the rule of law.
I have heard that Ma Fang is preparing for the Western Expedition. Considering the kindness and kindness of the Queen Mother and the filial piety of Your Majesty, I am afraid that if there is a small problem, it will be a little embarrassing for you to love and not punish.
I heard that Ma Fang asked Du Du to be his minister and gave him a lot of money and silk.
Du Du was once dismissed from his hometown and lived in Meiyang. His sister was Ma Fang's wife. He relied on this relationship to make friends with heroes. The local county magistrate was very difficult to deal with and had to lock him up.
Now that Ma Fang is here, the people who are talking about it feel very strange, let alone using him for work, I am afraid that the discussion will come to the court in the future.
Now he should select capable people to assist him. Ma Fang should not be allowed to recruit people without permission, which would damage the country's prestige.
This is what I thought, and I dare not report it to my superiors.
These essays were not examined and adopted by the emperor.
Although the fifth Lun is very strict and upright, he often hates the officials who are too harsh.
Later, when he became the Three Gongs, when he met the emperor who was wise and had good governance many times, he would praise him in the imperial court, so as to encourage good deeds and become a custom and virtue.
Shushang said: During his reign, Your Majesty had natural virtues, showed a gentle attitude, and treated his ministers with magnanimity. During the four years, he killed the governor and six people who were corrupt and cruel with two thousand shi in the year before last.
These are all wise and far-sighted things that cannot be accomplished by a group of people.
However, every time the edict was issued, it was always lenient but could not relieve urgent political affairs. It emphasized frugality but the trend of luxury continued. The fault lay in the corruption of customs and the incompetence of the people.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
光武承王莽之馀，颇以严猛为政，后代因之，遂成风化。
郡国所举，类多辩职俗吏。殊未有宽博之选以应上求者也。
陈留令刘豫，冠军令驷协，并以刻薄之姿，临人宰邑，专念掠杀，务为严苦，吏民愁怨，莫不疾之，而今之议者反以为能，违天心，失经义，诚不可不慎也。
非徒应坐豫、协，亦当宜谴举者。
务进仁贤以任时政，不过数人，则风俗自化矣。
臣尝读书记，知秦以酷急亡国，又目见王莽亦以苛法自灭，故勤勤恳恳，实在于此，又闻诸王主贵戚，骄奢逾制，京师尚然，何以示远。
故曰 其身不正，虽令下从 以身教者从，以言教者讼。
夫阴阳和岁乃丰，君臣同心化乃成也。
其刺史、太守以下，拜除京师及道出洛阳者，宜皆召见，可因博问四方，兼以观察其人。
诸上书言事有不合者，可但报归田里，不宜过加喜怒，以明在宽。
臣愚不足采。
及诸马得罪归国，而窦氏始贵，伦复上疏曰：臣得以空虚之质，当辅弼之任。素性驽怯，位尊爵重，抱迫大义，思自策厉，虽遭百死，不敢择地，又况亲遇危言之世哉。
今承百王之敝，人尚文巧，感趋邪路，莫能守正。
伏见虎贲中郎将窦宪，椒房之亲，典司禁兵，出入省闼，年盛志美，卑谦乐善，此诚其好士交结之方。
然诸出入贵戚者，类多瑕衅禁锢之人，尤少守约安贫之节，士大夫无志之徒更相贩卖，云集其门。
众煦飘山，聚蚊成雷，盖骄佚所从生也。
三辅论议者，至云以贵戚废锢，当复以贵戚浣濯之，犹解酲当以酒也。
诐险趣势之徒，诚不可亲近。
臣愚愿陛下中宫严敕宪等闭门自守，无妄交通士大夫，防其未萌，虑于无形，令宪永保福禄，君臣交欢，无纤介之隙。此臣之至所愿也。
伦奉公尽节，言事无所依违。
translation: 
Emperor Guangwu inherited Wang Mang's mess and took some harsh and brutal political measures, which were continued by subsequent generations and became a common practice.
Nowadays, most of the people recommended by the county are lay officials who can only judge their duties, and they have not selected some talented people to meet the needs of the superiors.
Chenliu County Magistrate Liu Yu and Champion County Magistrate Si Xie all handled county affairs with harsh methods. They only wanted to plunder and kill, and they only tortured. The officials and the people were worried and complained, and they all hated them. But now the public opinion thinks that the warriors are against the will of God, against the principles of the classics, and must be done with caution.
Not only Liu Yu and Si Xie should be punished, but the people who promoted them should also be condemned.
From now on, benevolent, virtuous and capable people must be selected to hold positions. Only a few people can transform customs.
I have read ancient books and know that the Qin Dynasty perished due to cruelty, and I saw with my own eyes that Wang Mang also destroyed himself due to harsh laws, so this is the reason for my diligence. I also heard that the princes, nobles, and relatives are proud and extravagant and go beyond the system. If the capital is like this, how can it set an example for distant places?
The ancients said: He himself does not follow the right path. Even if he issues orders, no one will obey him. Those who demonstrate with their bodies can command obedience, and those who teach others with words can cause arguments.
When the yin and yang qi between the heaven and the earth are in harmony, the rain will fall. Only when you are mature can you be prosperous. Only when the monarch and his ministers are of one heart and one mind can the people be transformed into customs.
Those officials below the governor and prefect, those who went to the capital to pay homage, and those who passed through Luoyang should be summoned to understand the situation in all directions and to observe their behavior.
Those who write letters that are unrealistic can be allowed to return to the fields without being overly happy or angry to show generosity.
My humble opinion may not be correct.
Later, several relatives surnamed Ma came back after being convicted, and the Dou family began to gain power. The Fifth Lun went to Shudao again: I am responsible for the important task of assisting the country based on my empty nature.
Now that we have inherited the bad government of the Hundred Kings, people like to take advantage of the situation and try to take the wrong path instead of the right path.
I saw that Dou Xian, the general of the Tiger Guard, was a relative of the empress. He had the power to ban soldiers and was in and out of the palace. He was young, ambitious, courteous to others, and liked to do good deeds. This is indeed the way to make friends with good scholars.
However, most of those who came in and out of the noble family seemed to have shortcomings or had been detained. In particular, they rarely had the integrity to live in peace and be content with poverty. In addition, some unambitious people among the scholar-bureaucrats praised each other and gathered under his disciples.
When the wind is strong, it can move mountains, and when there are too many mosquitoes, they can scream like thunder. This is probably the breeding ground for arrogance, extravagance and licentiousness.
The most controversial among recent mothers in the capital were those who even said that the guilty relatives should be allowed to cleanse themselves of their mistakes, just like a drunk person using wine to relieve his hangover.
Those who follow the crowd are indeed unapproachable.
In my humble opinion, I hope that your majesty will strictly order Dou Xian and others to stay behind closed doors in the palace and not to associate with scholar-bureaucrats casually, so as to nip the trouble in the bud and eliminate worries invisibly, so that Xian and others will always remain rich and noble, and the relationship between the monarch and his ministers will be harmonious without any suspicion. This is my greatest wish.
The fifth moral principle is to abide by the law, be loyal and honest, and never hesitate to say anything.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
诸子或时谏止，辄叱遣之，吏人奏记及便宜者，亦并封上，其无私若此。
性质悫，少文采，在位以贞白称，时人方之前朝贡禹。
然少蕴藉，不修威仪，亦以此见轻。
或问伦曰 公有私乎 对曰 昔人有与吾千里马者，吾虽不受，每三公有所选举，心不能忘，而亦终不用也。
吾兄子常病，一夜十往，退而安寝。吾子有疾，虽不省视而竟夕不眠。
若是者，岂可谓无私乎 连以老病上疏乞身。
种所坐以盗贼公负，筋力未就，罪至征徙，非有大恶。
昔虞舜事亲，大杖则走。
故种逃亡，苟全性命，冀有朱家之路，以显季布之会，愿陛下无遗须臾之恩，令种有持忠入地之恨。会赦出，卒于家。钟离意字子阿，会稽山阴人也。
少为郡督邮。
时部县亭长有受人酒礼者，府下记案考之。
意封还记，入言于太守曰 《春秋》先内后外，《诗》云刑于寡妻，以御于家邦，明政化之本，由近及远。
今宜先清府内，且阔略远县细微之愆 太守甚贤之，遂任以县事。
建武十四年，会稽大疫，死者万数，意独身自隐亲，经给医药，所部多蒙全济。
举孝廉，再迁，辟大司徒侯霸府。
诏部送徒诣河内，时冬寒，徒病不能行。
路过弘农，意辄移属县使作徒衣，县不得已与之，而上书言状，意亦具以闻。
光武得奏，以视霸，曰 君所使掾何乃仁于用心。
诚良吏也 意遂于道解徒桎梏，恣所欲过，与克期俱至，无或违者。还，以病免。
后除瑕丘令。
translation: 
His sons sometimes tried to dissuade them, but were often reprimanded. He also sent them along with the officials' notes and some things that were done cheaply. This is how selfless he was.
He had a simple and honest character, with few literary talents. He was known for his loyalty and innocence during his reign. At that time, people compared him to Gongyu of the previous dynasty.
But he is not subtle enough and does not pay attention to appearance, and he is looked down upon for this.
Someone asked him: Do you have selfish motives? Answer: Once upon a time, someone gave me a thousand-mile horse. Although I did not accept it, whenever the Sangong was selecting talents, I could never forget the person who gave the horse, but I never used him.
My nephew was sick, so I went there ten times in one night, and then I could sleep peacefully after I came back. My son was sick, and although I didn't go to see him, I didn't sleep all night.
Can it be said that there is no selfishness in things like these? Later, Shang Shu requested to retire one after another due to old age and illness.
In the third year of Yuanhe, the emperor gave him a plan to retire and provide him with a salary of two thousand dan for his old age. In addition, he was given an additional 500,000 yuan and a public residence.
He died several years later, when he was over eighty years old. The emperor issued an edict to give him secret vessels, quilts, money, cloth and other items for burial purposes.
◆Zhongliyi's biography, Zhongliyi's courtesy name is Zi'a, and he was a native of Shanyin in Kuaiji.
When he was young, he worked as a county governor.
At that time, the head of the pavilion in the county received a wine gift from someone, and he was registered by the government for inspection.
When Zhongli Yifeng still recorded it, he went in and said to the prefect: "Spring and Autumn" first starts with the inside and then the outside. The "Book of Songs" says: Punish the widow to control the family and the country. This means that the fundamentals of political change should be clarified, from near to far.
Now we should clean up the house first, and let go of the minor mistakes in distant counties for the time being. The prefect thought he was very capable and appointed him to take charge of county affairs.
In the 14th year of Jianwu's reign, there was a great plague in Kuaiji, which killed tens of thousands of people. Zhongliyi personally sympathized with him and provided medicine regularly, and his subordinate ministries received many aids from him.
Zhong Liyi was promoted to Xiaolian and promoted again, and was mentioned in the Grand Situ Houba Mansion.
The imperial court issued an edict to send the disciple to Hanoi. It was a cold winter and the disciple was sick and could not walk.
Passing by Hongnong, Zhongliyi sent a letter to the county to make clothes for his disciples. The county had no choice but to give it to him, but the letter explained the situation, and Zhongliyi also reported everything.
After Emperor Guangwu received the memorial, he showed it to Hou Ba and said, "The constable you sent has such a good conscience. He is indeed a good official."
Zhongli intended to remove the shackles of the prisoners on the road and let them disperse, but he must arrive at the scheduled time and no one would violate it. After returning, he was dismissed due to illness.
Later he was awarded the title of Xiaqiu Order.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
吏有檀建者，盗窃县内，意屏人问状，建叩头服罪，不忍加刑，遣令长休。
建父闻之，为建设酒，谓曰 吾闻无道之君以刃残人，有道之君以义行诛。
子罪，命也 遂令建进药而死。
二十五年，迁堂邑令。
县人防广为父报仇，系狱，其母病死，广哭泣不食。
意怜伤之，乃听广归家，使得殡敛。
丞掾皆争，意曰 罪自我归，义不累下 遂遣之。
广敛母讫，果还入狱。
意密以状闻，广竟得以减死论。
显宗即位，征为尚书。
时交阯太守张恢，坐臧千金，征还伏法，以资物簿入大司农，诏班赐群臣。
意得珠玑，悉以委地而不拜赐。
帝怪而问其故。对曰 臣闻孔子忍渴于盗泉之水，曾参回车于胜母之闾，恶其名也。
此臧秽之宝，诚不敢拜 帝嗟叹曰 清乎尚书之言 乃更以库钱三十万赐意。
转为尚书仆射。
车驾数幸广成苑，意以为从禽废政，常当年阵谏般乐游田之事，天子即时还宫。
永平三年夏旱，而大起北宫，意诣阙免冤上疏曰：伏见陛下以天时小旱，忧念元元，降避正殿，躬自克责，而比日密云，遂无大润，岂政有未得应天心者邪。
昔成汤遭旱，以六事自责曰 政不节邪。
使人疾邪。
宫室荣邪。
女谒盛邪。
苞苴行邪。
谗夫昌邪 窃见北宫大作，人失农时，此所谓宫室荣也。
自古非苦宫室小狭，但患人不安宁。
宜且罢止，以应天心。
臣意以匹夫之才，无有行能，久食重禄，擢备近臣，比受厚赐，喜惧相并，不胜愚戆征营，罪当万死
帝策诏报曰 汤引六事，咎在一人。
translation: 
One of the officials, Tan Jian, stole something from the county. Zhongliyi retreated and asked for a confession privately. Tan Jian kowtowed and admitted his crime. Zhongliyi could not bear to impose more punishment and ordered him to rest for a long time.
Tan Jian's father heard about it, held a banquet for Jian, and said to him: "I heard that an unrighteous man kills with a sword, but a righteous man kills with righteousness."
You are guilty and deserve this. So Jian was told to take medicine and died.
In the twenty-fifth year, he was promoted to Tangyi Ling.
Guang, the county police officer, avenged his father and was arrested and imprisoned. His mother died of illness and Guang cried and refused to eat.
Zhongliyi sympathized with him and allowed Ren Guang to return home so that he could bury his mother.
The prime ministers and ministers all argued about this matter, and Zhongliyi said: "I will release the sinners, and I will not harm you."
So he sent him away. After burying his mother, he came back to jail.
Zhong Liyi secretly reported the incident, and Guang was relieved of his death sentence.
Xianzong ascended the throne and was appointed minister.
At this time, Zhang Hui, the prefect of Jiaozhi, was greedy for a large sum of money. He recalled Fufa and confiscated the property book from Sinong, Jiaoda. The imperial court issued an edict to give the stolen goods to the officials.
Zhong Liyi got some pearls and put them all on the ground without praying.
The emperor was surprised and asked the reason, and said: "I heard that Confucius endured his thirst without drinking water from the stolen spring. Zeng Shen heard the name of Sheng Mu and returned to the carriage. He hated her name."
I really don’t dare to worship these dirty treasures. The emperor sighed and said: "How honest the minister's words are!" So he took out 300,000 yuan from the treasury and gave it to Zhongli.
He was promoted to the rank of Minister of Public Affairs.
The emperor's holy cavalry visited Guangcheng Garden many times. Zhong Liyi thought that he was a waste of government and often blocked the car and Chen Jianbile's hunting. The emperor immediately returned to the palace.
There was a severe drought in the summer of the third year of Yongping, and the imperial court was in the North Palace. Zhongliyi went to the imperial court and said: "I saw that your majesty was worried about the people and retreated to the main hall because of a slight drought. He blamed himself. However, there were dense clouds and no rain for days, and there was no great moisture. Could it be that the government was not in compliance with the will of heaven?"
Once upon a time when Chengtang was hit by a drought, he blamed himself for six things: Isn't government frugal?
Making people sick?
Is the palace too gorgeous?
Are there too many female visitors?
Is there anyone who pays bribes?
Are there too many slanderers? When the ministers see the great work in the Beigong and the people lose their crops, this is how the palace is gorgeous.
Since ancient times, people have not been worried about the palace being too cramped, but worried about people being restless.
Construction should be stopped temporarily to comply with Tianxin.
I have the talents of an ordinary man, but no moral ability. I have been earning a lot of money for a long time, and I have been promoted to a close minister. I have received generous gifts. I am full of joy and fear. I am not full of stupid enthusiasm. I am guilty of death.
The emperor's imperial edict reported: Cheng Tang blamed himself for six things, and the fault lies with one person.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
其冠履，勿谢。
比上天降旱，密云数会，朕戚然惭惧，思获嘉应，故分布祷请，窥候风云，北祈明堂，南设雩场。
今又敕大匠止作诸宫，减省不急，庶消灾谴 诏因谢公卿百僚，遂应时澍雨焉。
时，诏赐降胡子缣，尚书案事，误以十为百。
帝见司农上簿，大怒，召郎，将笞之。
意因入叩头曰 过误之失，常人所容。
若以懈慢为愆，则臣位大，罪重，郎位小，罪轻，咎皆在臣，臣当先坐 乃解衣就格。
帝意解，使复冠而贳郎。
帝性褊察，好以耳目隐发为明，故公卿大臣数被诋毁，近臣尚书以下至见提拽。
尝以事怒郎药崧，以杖撞之。
崧走入床下，帝怒甚，疾言曰 郎出。
郎出 崧曰 天子穆穆，诸侯煌煌。
未闻入君自起撞郎 帝赦之。
朝廷莫不悚栗，争为严切，以避诛责。惟意独敢谏争，数封还诏书，臣下过失辄救解之。
会连有变异，意复上疏曰：伏惟陛下躬行孝道，修明经术，郊祀天地，畏敬鬼神，忧恤黎元，劳心不怠。
而天气未和，日月不明，水泉涌溢，寒暑违节者，咎在群臣不能宣化理职，而以苛刻为俗。
吏杀良人，继踵不绝。
百官无相亲之心，吏人无雍雍之志。
至于骨肉相残，毒害弥深，感逆和气，以致天灾。
百姓可以德胜，难以力服。
先王要道，民用和睦，故能致天下和平，灾害不生，祸乱不作。
《鹿鸣》之诗必言宴乐者，以人神之心洽，然后天气和也。
愿陛下垂圣德，揆万机，诏有司，慎人命，缓刑罚，顺时气，以调阴阳，垂之无极。
帝虽不能用，然知其至诚。
translation: 
You all can resume your duties, no need to thank you.
Recently, there has been a drought in the sky, and the clouds have gathered several times without rain. I feel very scared and want to get good retribution, so I spread my prayers and wait for the wind and clouds. I set up a Mingtang in the north and a shrine in the south to pray for rain.
Now he ordered the master craftsmen to stop building the palaces and reduce unnecessary tasks, hoping to eliminate disasters. The imperial edict was then sent to the public officials and officials, and it rained at the right time.
At that time, the imperial court issued an edict to give the son of Jianghu a silk string. When the minister noticed this, he mistakenly counted ten as a hundred.
When the emperor saw Sinong going to the register, he lost his temper and Zhao Lang was about to beat him.
Zhong Liyi came in and kowtowed: "If you make a mistake, ordinary people can tolerate it."
If a mistake is made due to laziness, then if the minister has a higher position, the crime will be heavier, if the minister has a lower position, the crime will be minor. The fault is all my fault, and I should be punished first. So he took off his clothes and leaned on the torture device.
The emperor came to his senses, made him wear his hat and pardoned him.
The emperor had an observant temperament and liked to use his ears and eyes to listen to his thoughts privately. Therefore, the ministers and ministers were slandered many times, and his close ministers and ministers were even promoted.
One time, he was angry with Lang Yaosong and beat him with a stick.
Yaosong quickly ran under the bed. Emperor was furious and shouted: "Lang, come out!" Come out!
Song said: The emperor Mu Mu, the princes are brilliant.
I have never heard of a man standing up to hit a man. The emperor pardoned him.
Everyone in the court was not afraid and fought hard to avoid punishment; only Zhong Liyi dared to remonstrate and remonstrated. He returned the edict several times and rescued his ministers when they made mistakes.
When encountering special circumstances, Zhong Liyi went to Shudao again: Your Majesty personally practices filial piety, cultivates scriptures, worships heaven and earth in the suburbs, fears ghosts and gods, cares about the sufferings of the people, and never slackens in his hard work.
However, the weather is not harmonious, the sun and moon are unclear, the water springs are overflowing, and the cold and heat are abnormal. The reason is that the ministers cannot declare their duties and are harsh as a custom.
Officials killed the wrong good people one after another.
The officials have no love for each other, and the officials have no intention of harmony.
As for the killing of flesh and blood, the poison is extremely profound, and the power is contrary to the harmonious spirit, causing disasters from heaven.
People can be educated morally, but cannot be subdued by force.
The ancient kings maintained a harmonious way and the people were harmonious, so the world could be at peace, disasters and chaos would not occur.
The poem "Lu Ming" must talk about feasting, which means that the hearts of humans and gods are in harmony, and then the weather will be harmonious.
I hope that Your Majesty will be sage and virtuous, manage everything, issue edicts in a responsible manner, treat human life with caution, suspend punishments, follow the trend of the times, regulate yin and yang, and be able to live forever in future generations.
Although the emperor could not adopt it, he knew that he had a sincere heart.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
亦以此故不得久留，出为鲁相。
后德阳殿成，百官大会。
帝思意言，谓公卿曰 钟离尚书若在，此殿不立
意视事五年，以爱利为化，人多殷富。
帝每夜入台，辄见崧，问其故，甚嘉之，自此诏太官赐尚书以下朝夕餐，给帷被阜袍，及侍史二人。崧官至南阳太守。宋均字叔庠，南阳安众人也。
父伯，建武初为五官中郎将。
均以父任为郎，时年十五，好经书，每休沐日，辄受业博士，通《诗》、《礼》，善论难。
至二十馀，调补辰阳长。
其俗少学者而信巫鬼，均为立学校，禁绝淫祀，人皆安之。
以祖母丧去官，客授颍川。
后为谒者。
会武陵蛮反，围武威将军刘尚，诏使均乘传发江夏奔命三千人往救之。
既至而尚已没。
会伏波将军马援至，诏因令均监军，与诸将俱进，贼拒厄不得前。
及马援卒于师，军士多温湿疾病，死者太半。
均虑军遂不反，乃与诸将议曰 今道远士病，不可以战，欲权承制降之何如 诸将皆伏地莫敢应。
均曰 夫忠臣出竟，有可以安国家，专之可也 乃矫制调伏波司马吕种守沅陵长，命种奉诏书入虏营，告以恩信，因勒兵随其后。
蛮夷震怖，即共斩其大帅而降，于是入贼营，散其众，遣归本郡，为置长吏而还。
均未至，先自劾矫制之罪。
光武嘉其功，迎赐以金帛，令过家上冢。
其后每有四方异议，数访问焉。
迁上蔡令。
时府下记，禁人丧葬不得侈长。
均曰 夫送终逾制，失之轻者。
今有不义之民，尚未循化，而遽罚过礼，非政之先 竟不肯施行。
迁九江太守。
translation: 
For this reason, he could not stay in the capital for a long time and soon became the prime minister of Lu.
Later, Deyang Hall was built and a gathering of officials was held.
The emperor remembered Zhong Liyi's words and said to the minister: If Zhongli, the minister, were here, this palace would not be built.
Zhongliyi served as an official for five years and used caring for and benefiting the people as the basis of education. The people became more prosperous.
Died in official position due to long illness. The last words were written to the emperor stating that the time of peace was difficult to change and should be treated with a little leniency. The emperor felt sorry for him and issued an edict, giving him 200,000 yuan to settle down. ◆Biography of Song Jun, whose courtesy name is Shuxiang, and who was born in Anzhong, Nanyang.
His father, Uncle Song, served as a general of the rank and file in the early years of Jianwu.
Song Jun became a doctor because of his father's appointment. He was fifteen years old at the time. He was fond of reading classics. During his holidays, he would study with doctors. Therefore, he was proficient in "Poetry" and "Li" and could debate issues.
When you are in your twenties, you will be able to replenish Chen Yang.
The customs there were less learned and more superstitious about witches and ghosts. Song Jun established schools for them and banned improper sacrifices, so the people settled down.
In Song Dynasty, Jun left his official position due to the death of his grandmother and was awarded the title of guest in Yingchuan.
Later he became a visitor.
Encountering Wuling barbarians and surrounding Wuwei General Liu Shang, the imperial court ordered Song Jun to send 3,000 people from Jiangxia to rescue.
Liu Shang was dead when he got there.
It happened that General Fubo Ma Yuan arrived, and the imperial edict ordered Song Jun to serve as a supervisor and advance with the generals. However, he was blocked by thieves and could not advance.
After Ma Yuan's death, more than half of the sergeants died due to warm and damp diseases.
Song Jun was worried about the safety of the army and refused to return, so he discussed with the generals: Now that the soldiers who are far away are ill and unable to fight, how about using expedient measures to accept the surrender? All the generals fell on the ground and did not dare to agree.
Song Jun said: When loyal ministers leave the country, they can find ways to stabilize the country and make decisions by themselves. So under the false imperial edict, Ma Yuan's subordinate Sima Lv Zhong was sent to guard Yuanling, and Lv Zhong was ordered to enter the enemy camp with the imperial edict and express the favor of the court, so he ordered his troops to follow behind.
The barbarians were afraid, so they all killed their commanders and surrendered. Then they entered the bandit camp, dispersed their people, sent them back to their headquarters, and appointed senior officials for them before returning.
Song Jun had not yet arrived at the court and had committed the crime of imposition himself.
Emperor Guangwu commended him for his meritorious service, welcomed him and gave him gold and silk, and ordered his family members to visit his grave.
In the future, whenever there were objections from all directions, he visited him many times.
Song Jun was promoted to Shangcai Ling.
At that time, the government issued an order prohibiting people from spending extravagant funerals.
Song Jun said: People send more than the regulations, which is a slight mistake.
Nowadays, the unjust people have not yet followed the rules, and hastily punishing those who violate the etiquette is not a political priority. Finally refused to implement it.
He was promoted to the governor of Jiujiang.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
郡多虎暴，数为民患，常募设槛阱而犹多伤害。
均到，下记属县曰 夫虎豹在山，鼋鼍在水，各有所托。
且江淮之有猛兽，犹北土之有鸡豚也。
今为民害，咎在残吏，而劳勤张捕，非忧恤之本也。
其务退奸贪，思进忠善，可一去槛阱，除削课制 其后传言虎相与东游度江。
中元元年，山阳、楚、沛多蝗，其飞至九江界者，辄东西散去，由是名称远近。
浚遒县有唐、后二山，民共祠之，众巫遂取百姓男女以为公妪，岁岁改易，既而不敢嫁娶，前后守令莫敢禁。
均乃下书曰 自今以后，为山娶者皆娶巫家，勿扰良民 于是遂绝。
永平元年，迁东海相，在郡五年，坐法免官，客授颍川。
而东海吏民思均恩化，为之作歌，诣阙乞还者数千人。
显宗以其能，七年，征拜尚书令。
每有驳议，多合上旨。
均尝删剪疑事，帝以为有奸，大怒，收郎缚格之。
诸尚书惶恐，皆叩头谢罪。
均顾厉色曰 盖忠臣执义，无有二心。
若畏威失正，均虽死，不易志 小黄门在傍，入具以闻。
帝善其不挠，即令贳郎，迁均司隶校尉。
数月，出为河内太守，政化大行。
均尝寝病，百姓耆老为祷请，旦夕问起居，其为民爱若此。
以疾上书乞免，诏除子条为太子舍人。
均自扶舆诣阙谢恩，帝使中黄门慰问，因留养疾。
司徒缺，帝以均才任宰相，召入视其疾，令两驺扶之。
均拜谢曰 天罚有罪，所苦浸笃，不复奉望帷幄 因流涕而辞。
帝甚伤之，召条扶侍均出，赐钱三十万。
均性宽和，不喜文法，常以为吏能弘厚，虽贪污放纵，犹无所害。至于苛察之人，身或廉法，而巧黠刻削，毒加百姓，灾害流亡所由而作。
translation: 
There are many tigers and leopards in the county, which have become a danger to the people many times. Soldiers are often recruited to set traps to hunt tigers and leopards, but there are still many dangers.
When Song Jun arrived, he sent an official document to the county: Generally speaking, tigers and leopards are in the mountains, and turtles are in the water. Each has its own place to live.
The ferocious beasts in the Jianghuai River are like the chickens and dolphins in the north.
Now it has become a harm to the people, and the fault lies with the cruel officials, and hard work in hunting is not the root of the evil.
Only by getting rid of the corrupt officials and promoting loyalty and kindness can all barriers and traps be removed and taxes be exempted. Later I heard that all the tigers were traveling east across the river.
In the first year of the Zhongyuan Dynasty, there were many locusts in Shanyang, Chu, Pei and other places. Those that flew to the border of Jiujiang dispersed in the east and west directions. Song Jun's reputation was heard far and near.
There are two mountains in Junqiu County, Tang and Hou. The common people went there to offer sacrifices, and the witches chose men and women among the common people to be the corpse owners of the sacrifices. This changed every year. Soon, the common people did not dare to marry, and no one dared to stop them after following the orders.
Song Jun wrote a letter saying: From now on, those who marry for the mountains will marry daughters of the witch family, so as not to disturb good people. So this unhealthy trend ended.
In the first year of Yongping, he was promoted to the Prime Minister of the East China Sea and stayed in the county for five years. Later, he was dismissed for violating the law and was taught in Yingchuan.
But the officials and people in the East China Sea missed Song Jun Enhua, composed songs for him, and thousands of people came to the court to ask for his return.
Xianzong thought he was very capable, and for seven years, he was worshiped as a minister.
Every refutation was in line with the emperor's will.
Song Jun once deleted some suspicious things. The emperor thought it was treacherous, lost his temper, and punished him.
All the ministers were frightened and kowtowed to apologize.
Song Jun said sternly: "A loyal minister sticks to his principles and has no second thoughts."
If fear of power loses justice, I will not change my original intention even if I die. The little yellow door is nearby, go in and report the situation.
The emperor praised him for his unyielding, and immediately ordered Lang to be pardoned, and transferred Song Jun to the post of Sili Xiaowei.
A few months later, he came out to serve as the governor of Hanoi, and political reform flourished.
Song Jun was once ill, and the elders of the people prayed for him and asked him about his daily life in the morning and evening. He was loved by the people like this.
He wrote a letter requesting to retire due to illness, and the imperial court issued an edict to make his son Song Tiao the crown prince's successor.
Song Jun carried his carriage to the court to express his gratitude. The emperor sent Zhonghuangmen to express his condolences, so he stayed at home to recuperate.
When Situ was vacant, the emperor thought that Song Juncai had been appointed prime minister, so he called him into the palace to observe his condition and sent two horse breeders to help him.
Song Jun thanked him and said, "God punishes guilty people. They are so tortured by the disease that they can no longer serve in the curtain." So he said goodbye with tears in his eyes.
The emperor sympathized with him very much, summoned Song Tiao to help Song Jun out, and gave him 300,000 yuan.
Song Jun had a generous and kind personality, and disliked grammar. He often believed that officials could be generous and generous, and even if they were corrupt and indulgent, there would be no harm. As for the strict and observant people, even if they were honest and law-abiding, they would be cunning and mean, poisoning the people, and disasters and exiles were caused by these people.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
孙俱，灵帝时为司空。
寒朗字伯奇，鲁国薛人也。
生三日，遭天下乱，弃之荆刺。数日兵解，母往视，犹尚气息，遂收养之。
及长，好经学，博通书传，以《尚书》教授。
举孝廉。
永平中，以谒者守侍御史，与三府掾属共考案楚狱颜忠、王平等，辞连及隧乡侯耿建、朗陵侯臧信、护泽侯邓鲤、曲成侯刘建。
建等辞未尝与忠、平相见。
是时，显宗怒甚，吏皆惶恐，诸所连及，率一切陷入，无敢以情恕者。
朗心伤其冤，试以建等物色独问忠、平，而二人错愕不能对。
朗知其诈，乃上言建等无奸，专为忠、平所诬，疑天下无辜类多如此。
帝乃召朗人，问曰 建等即如是，忠、平何故引之 朗对曰 忠、平自知所犯不道，故多有虚引，冀以自明 帝曰 即如是，四侯无事，何不早奏，狱竟而久系至今邪 郎对曰 臣虽考之无事，然恐海内别有发其奸者，故未敢时上 帝怒骂曰 吏持两端，促提下 左右方引去，朗曰 愿一言而死。
小臣不敢欺，欲助国耳 帝问曰 谁与共为章 对曰 臣自知当必族灭，不敢多污染人，诚冀陛下一觉悟而已。
臣见考囚在事者，咸共言妖恶大故，臣子所宜同疾，今出之不如入之，可无后责。
是以考一连十，考十连百。
又公卿朝会，陛下问以得失，皆长跪言，旧制大罪祸及九族，陛下大恩，裁止于身，天下幸甚。
及其归舍，口虽不言，而仰屋窃叹，莫不知其多冤，无敢牾陛下者。
臣今所陈，诚死无悔 帝意解，诏遣朗出。
后二日，车驾自幸洛阳狱录囚徒，理出千馀人。
后平、忠死狱中，朗乃自系。
会赦，免官。
复举孝廉。
建初中，肃宗大会群臣，朗前谢恩，诏以朗纳忠先帝，拜为易长。
translation: 
Later, when I was serving as minister, I often wanted to kowtow and argue, but because of tight time constraints, I did not dare to state my opinions.
The emperor later felt sad after hearing his words. He died at home in the first year of Jianchu. ◆The biography of Han Lang, whose courtesy name was Boqi, was from Xue in the state of Lu.
Three days after he was born, the world was in chaos and he was thrown into thorns. A few days later, the war was over, and his mother went to see him. He was still alive and adopted him.
When he grew up, he liked the study of Confucian classics, had extensive knowledge of books and biographies, and taught his disciples in "Shang Shu".
He was promoted as Xiaolian.
During the Yongping period, he served as the imperial censor as a visitor, and jointly tried Yan Zhong and Wang Ping in the Chu prison with the three government officials. His confessions implicated the Hou Xiang Hou Geng Jian, Lang Ling Hou Zang Xin, Hu Ze Hou Deng Li, and Qu Cheng Hou Liu Jian.
Liu Jian and others stated in their confessions that they had never met Yan Zhong and Wang Ping.
At this time, Xianzong was furious, and the officials were afraid. Anyone involved would be involved in the case, and no one dared to forgive based on emotion.
The emperor said: Even so, the four princes are fine, why not report it early and let the lawsuit drag on for a long time?
Han Lang replied: Although I checked them and found nothing, I was afraid that others in the country would expose their adultery, so I didn't dare to report them in time. Emperor Fa cursed angrily: "The officials can't make up their mind like this, so hurry up and arrest him."
The people on the left and right were about to arrest Han Lang, but Han Lang said: I am willing to say a word and die.
A small minister does not dare to deceive the king, but only wants to help the country. The emperor asked: Who will discuss with you? He replied: I know that my clan should be exterminated, and I dare not pollute others too much. I only sincerely hope that Your Majesty will wake up.
When I see those who are imprisoned, they all say that they are evil and evil, and I should all hate them. Those who come out now are not as good as those who came in, so they do not need to be held accountable.
Therefore, taking one test will lead to ten, and taking ten tests will lead to hundreds.
Also, when the ministers met in court, when your majesty asked about gains and losses, he always knelt on the ground and spoke. The great crime of the old system had harmed the nine tribes, but your majesty was so kind that he only punished his own sins, and the world was very lucky.
When I returned home, I didn't say anything, but I raised my head and sighed. No one knew how wronged I was, and no one dared to disobey His Majesty.
What I am saying now is indeed that I will die without regrets. The emperor understood what he meant and issued an edict asking Hanlang to go out.
Two days later, the emperor went to Luoyang to interrogate the prisoners and cleared out more than a thousand people.
Later, Ping and Zhong died in prison, so Hanlang imprisoned himself.
In case of amnesty, he will be removed from his official position.
He was also promoted as Xiaolian.
During the early years of the founding of the People's Republic of China, Suzong held a meeting with ministers, and Hanlang came forward to express his gratitude. The edict recognized that Hanlang had given loyal advice to the late emperor, and he was appointed as the county magistrate of Yizhou.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
岁馀，迁济阳令，以母丧去官，百姓追思之。
章和元年，上行东巡狩，过济阳，三老吏人上书陈朗前政治状。
帝至梁，召见朗，诏三府为辟首，由是辟司徒府。
永元中，再迁清河太守，坐法免。
永初三年，太尉张禹荐朗为博士，征诣公车，会卒，时年八十四。
translation: 
After more than a year, he was promoted to the order of Luoyang. He resigned due to the death of his mother and the people missed him.
In the first year of Zhanghe, the emperor went on a tour to the east and passed through Jiyang. Three old officials wrote a letter describing the political situation before Hanlang.
When the emperor arrived in Liang, he summoned Hanlang and ordered the three prefectures to be appointed chiefs, thus promoting Hanlang to the Situ Prefecture.
During the Yongyuan period, he was promoted to the prefect of Qinghe, but was dismissed for violating the law.
In the third year of Yongchu's reign, Taiwei Zhang Yu recommended Han Lang as a doctor and conquered the public carriage. He met Han Lang and died at the age of eighty-four.


