Chunk 0: 
original: 
魏之先，毕公高之後也。
毕公高与周同姓。
武王之伐纣，而高封於毕，於是为毕姓。
其後绝封，为庶人，或在中国，或在夷狄。
其苗裔曰毕万，事晋献公。
献公之十六年，赵夙为御，毕万为右，以伐霍、耿、魏，灭之。
以耿封赵夙，以魏封毕万，为大夫。
卜偃曰： 毕万之後必大矣，万，满数也；魏，大名也。
以是始赏，天开之矣，天子曰兆民，诸侯曰万民。
今命之大，以从满数，其必有众。
初，毕万卜事晋，遇屯之比。
辛廖占之，曰： 吉。
屯固比入，吉孰大焉，其必蕃昌。
毕万封十一年，晋献公卒，四子争更立，晋乱。
而毕万之世弥大，从其国名为魏氏。
生武子。
魏武子以魏诸子事晋公子重耳。
translation: 
The ancestors of the Wei family are descendants of Bi Gonggao.
Bi Gonggao has the same surname as Emperor Zhou.
After King Wu defeated Zhou, Gao was granted the title Bi, so he took Bi as his surname.
His descendants had their titles discontinued and became commoners, some living in the Central Plains and some living in Yi and Di.
One of his descendants was named Bi Wan, who served Duke Xiang of Jin.
In the sixteenth year of Duke Xiang of Jin, Zhao Su drove a chariot with Bi Wan as the right guard to conquer Huo, Geng, and Wei, and destroyed them all.
Duke Xian granted Geng to Zhao Su and Wei to Bi Wan, and both of them became high officials.
Bu Yan, who was in charge of divination, said: Bi Wan's descendants must be very prosperous. Wan is the full number; Wei is the name of tall people.
Starting a reward with such a name is God's sponsorship for him. What the emperor rules is called Zhaomin, and what the princes rule is called Wanmin.
Now that his name is Da, followed by the full number, he will definitely have the people.
At the beginning, Bi Wan divined the good and bad fortune of serving Jin Jun, and obtained the tunzhūn, and the Yin Ping Zhun hexagram became the Bi hexagram.
Xin Liao concluded: Good luck.
Tun Gua symbolizes solidity and Bi Gua symbolizes entry. What could be more auspicious than this? It will be prosperous and prosperous in the future.
Eleven years after Bi Wan was granted the title, Duke Xiang of Jin died. His four sons competed with each other for the throne, and Jin was in civil strife.
There were more and more descendants of Bi Wan, and the country was named Wei after them.
Bi Wan gave birth to Wu Zi.
Wei Wuzi served Jin Gongzi Chong'er as a member of the Wei family.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
晋献公之二十一年，武子从重耳出亡。十九年反，重耳立为晋文公，而令魏武子袭魏氏之後封，列为大夫，治於魏。
生悼子。
魏悼子徙治霍。
生魏绛。
魏绛事晋悼公。
悼公三年，会诸侯。
悼公弟杨干乱行，魏绛僇辱杨干。
悼公怒曰： 合诸侯以为荣，今辱吾弟！
将诛魏绛。
或说悼公，悼公止。
卒任魏绛政，使和戎、翟，戎、翟亲附。
悼公之十一年，曰： 自吾用魏绛，八年之中，九合诸侯，戎、翟和，子之力也。
赐之乐，三让，然後受之。
徙治安邑。
魏绛卒，谥为昭子。
生魏嬴。嬴生魏献子。
献子事晋昭公。
昭公卒而六卿彊，公室卑。
晋顷公之十二年，韩宣子老，魏献子为国政。
晋宗室祁氏、羊舌氏相恶，六卿诛之，尽取其邑为十县，六卿各令其子为之大夫。
献子与赵简子、中行文子、范献子并为晋卿。
其後十四岁而孔子相鲁。
後四岁，赵简子以晋阳之乱也，而与韩、魏共攻范、中行氏。
魏献子生魏侈。魏侈与赵鞅共攻范、中行氏。
魏侈之孙曰魏桓子，与韩康子、赵襄子共伐灭知伯，分其地。
桓子之孙曰文侯都。
魏文侯元年，秦灵公之元年也。
与韩武子、赵桓子、周威王同时。
translation: 
In the 21st year of Duke Xiang of Jin, Wei Wuzi followed Chong'er into exile. Nineteen years later, when he returned to China, Chong'er ascended the throne as Duke Wen of Jin, allowing Wei Wuzi to inherit the titles of the descendants of the Wei family and rise to the status of a high official. His official residence was located in Wei Yi.
Wei Wuzi gave birth to a son.
Wei Daozi moved the government office to Huoyi.
He gave birth to Wei Jiang.
Wei Jiang served Duke Ao of Jin.
In the third year of mourning for the Duke, he made an alliance with the princes.
Yang Qian, the younger brother of the duke, caused chaos in the queue, and Wei Jiang killed Yang Qian's servants to humiliate him.
Duke Mourning said angrily: "I am proud of joining the princes, but now I am insulting my brother!"
Wei Jiang will be killed.
Some people tried to persuade him to mourn, but he gave up.
Later, Wei Jiang was finally appointed to be in power, and he was sent to repair with Rong and Di. From then on, Rong and Di became close and attached to Jin.
In the eleventh year of the reign of Duke Mourning, Duke Mourning said: Since I appointed Wei Jiang, in eight years, I have met with the princes nine times, and Rong and Di have made peace with us. This is all due to your efforts!
Wei Jiang was given musical instruments and a band, but Wei Jiang declined three times before accepting.
Wei Jiang moved his government to Anyi.
After Wei Jiang's death, his posthumous title was Zhaozi.
He gave birth to Wei Ying, and Wei Ying gave birth to Wei Xianzi.
Wei Xianzi served Duke Zhao of Jin.
After the death of Duke Zhao, the six ministers of Jin became stronger and stronger, while the official family declined.
In the twelfth year of Jin Qinggong's reign, Han Xuanzi became old and Wei Xianzi took charge of state affairs.
The Qi clan and the Yangyu clan of the Jin State slandered each other. The Six Qing Dynasties killed them, took back all their fiefdoms and divided them into ten counties. The Six Qing Dynasties sent their sons to serve as officials in the ten counties.
Wei Xianzi, Zhao Jianzi, Zhongxing Wenzi, and Fan Xianzi were all ministers of Jin.
For the next fourteen years, Confucius served as acting prime minister of the State of Lu.
Four years later, due to the Jinyang Rebellion, Zhao Jianzi, together with the Han family and the Wei family, attacked the Fan family and the Zhonghang family.
Wei Xianzi gave birth to Wei Chi, who together with Zhao Yang attacked the Fan family and the Zhongxing family.
Wei Chi's grandson was Wei Huanzi. He, Han Kangzi and Zhao Xiangzi joined forces to defeat Zhibo and divide his territory.
Huanzi's grandson was Wenhou Weisi.
The first year of Wei Wenhou was the first year of Qin Ling.
Wei Wenhou was at the same time as Han Wuzi, Zhao Huanzi, and Zhou Weilie.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
六年，城少梁。
十三年，使子击围繁、庞，出其民。
十六年，伐秦，筑临晋元里。
十七年，伐中山，使子击守之，赵仓唐傅之。
子击逢文侯之师田子方於朝歌，引车避，下谒。
田子方不为礼。
子击因问曰： 富贵者骄人乎？且贫贱者骄人乎？
子方曰： 亦贫贱者骄人耳。
夫诸侯而骄人则失其国，大夫而骄人则失其家。
贫贱者，行不合，言不用，则去之楚、越，若脱鵕然，柰何其同之哉！
子击不怿而去。
西攻秦，至郑而还，筑雒阴、合阳。
二十二年，魏、赵、韩列为诸侯。
二十四年，秦伐我，至阳狐。
二十五年，子击生子。
文侯受子夏经艺，客段干木，过其闾，未尝不轼也。
秦尝欲伐魏，或曰： 魏君贤人是礼，国人称仁，上下和合，未可图也。
文侯由此得誉於诸侯。
任西门豹守鄴，而河内称治。
translation: 
In the sixth year of Marquis Wen's reign, he built a city in Shaoliang.
In the thirteenth year, he sent his subordinates to attack Fan and Pang and move out the people there.
In the 16th year, he attacked Qin and built cities in Linjin and Yuanli.
In the seventeenth year of Marquis Wen's reign, he attacked and destroyed the Zhongshan Kingdom, and sent Ziqi to garrison there, asking Zhao Cangtang to assist him.
Zicheng met Wenhou's teacher Tian Zifang in Chaoge. He stepped back from his car to make way, and got out of the car to pay his respects.
Tian Zifang did not return the favor.
Zijing asked him, "Are rich people arrogant to others, or are poor people arrogant to others?"
Tian Zifang said: It's just that poor and humble people are arrogant towards others.
If a prince is arrogant to others, he will lose his feudal kingdom; if a great official is arrogant to others, he will lose his family.
If the poor and humble people do not agree with their behavior and their opinions are not accepted, they will leave here and go to Chu and Yue, just like taking off their straw sandals. How can they be the same as the rich and noble people!
Zicheng left unhappy.
He attacked the Qin State to the west, returned to the Zheng State, and built cities in Luoyin and Heyang.
In the 22nd year of Marquis Wen, Wei, Zhao and Han were recognized as princes.
In the twenty-fourth year of Marquis Wen's reign, the Qin army attacked Wei and reached Yanghu.
In the twenty-fifth year of Marquis Wen's reign, his son gave birth to a son.
Marquis Wen studied the Confucian classics under Zixia and treated Duan Qianmu as a guest. When he passed through his hometown, he never failed to pay tribute to Ping Shi.
Qin once wanted to attack Wei. Some people say: The king of Wei has special respect for wise men. People in Wei praise his benevolence and he is harmonious and united, so he cannot have any intentions against him.
As a result, Marquis Wen received praise from the princes.
Ximen Bao was appointed as the governor of Ye County, so Hanoi was known as peaceful and stable.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
魏文侯谓李克曰： 先生尝教寡人曰 家贫则思良妻，国乱则思良相 。
今所置非成则璜，二子何如？
李克对曰： 臣闻之，卑不谋尊，疏不谋戚。
臣在阙门之外，不敢当命。
文侯曰： 先生临事勿让。
李克曰： 君不察故也。
居视其所亲，富视其所与，达视其所举，穷视其所不为，贫视其所不取，五者足以定之矣，何待克哉！
文侯曰： 先生就舍，寡人之相定矣。
李克趋而出，过翟璜之家。
翟璜曰： 今者闻君召先生而卜相，果谁为之？
李克曰： 魏成子为相矣。
翟璜忿然作色曰： 以耳目之所睹记，臣何负於魏成子？
西河之守，臣之所进也。
君内以鄴为忧，臣进西门豹。
君谋欲伐中山，臣进乐羊。
中山以拔，无使守之，臣进先生。
君之子无傅，臣进屈侯鲋。
臣何以负於魏成子！
李克曰： 且子之言克於子之君者，岂将比周以求大官哉？
君问而置相 非成则璜，二子何如 ？
克对曰： 君不察故也。
居视其所亲，富视其所与，达视其所举，穷视其所不为，贫视其所不取，五者足以定之矣，何待克哉！
是以知魏成子之为相也。
translation: 
Marquis Wen of Wei said to Li Ke: My husband once taught me: If your family is poor, you want a good wife; if your country is in chaos, you want a wise prime minister.
Now we have to appoint a prime minister, either Chengzi or Zhai Huang. What do you think of these two people?
Li Ke replied: I have heard that humble people do not plan for noble people, and distant people do not plan for those who are close to them.
My responsibilities lie outside the palace, and I dare not take on this mission.
Marquis Wen said: Sir, don't refuse when faced with this matter.
Li Ke said: This is because you did not pay attention to inspection.
Look at who he is close to in normal times, who he associates with when he is rich, who he recommends when he is powerful, what he does not do when he is frustrated, and what he does not want when he is poor. With these five things, you can decide who will be the prime minister. Why wait for me, Li Ke!
Marquis Wen said: Sir, please go home, my prime minister has decided.
Li Ke walked out quickly and visited Zhai Huang at his home.
Zhai Huang said: Today I heard that the monarch summoned Mr. to choose the prime minister. Who will be the prime minister?
Li Ke said: Wei Chengzi has become prime minister.
Zhai Huang's face changed with anger, and he said: Based on what I saw and heard with my ears and eyes, in what way am I worse than Wei Chengzi?
The defender of Xihe is my recommendation.
The monarch is most worried about Yejun in the mainland, so I recommended Ximen Bao.
The monarch planned to attack Zhongshan Kingdom, and I recommended Le Yang.
After Zhongshan was conquered and no one could be sent to guard it, I recommended Mr.
The monarch's son had no master, so I recommended Quhou Yu.
In what way am I worse than Wei Chengzi!
Li Ke said: Is your purpose of recommending me to your monarch to form a party for personal gain and seek to become a high official?
The monarch asked to arrange for the prime minister to be either Chengzi or Zhai Huang. What about the two of them?
I replied: This is because you did not pay attention to the investigation.
Look at the people he is close to in ordinary times, look at the people he recommends when he is powerful, look at the things he does not do when he is frustrated, and look at the things he does not want when he is poor. These five points are enough to make the decision. Why do I need Li Ke?
Therefore, we knew that Wei Chengzi was going to be the prime minister.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
且子安得与魏成子比乎？
魏成子以食禄千锺，什九在外，什一在内，是以东得卜子夏、田子方、段干木。
此三人者，君皆师之。
子之所进五人者，君皆臣之。
子恶得与魏成子比也？
翟璜逡巡再拜曰： 璜，鄙人也，失对，原卒为弟子。
二十六年，虢山崩，壅河。
三十二年，伐郑。
城酸枣。
败秦于注。
三十五年，齐伐取我襄陵。
三十六年，秦侵我阴晋。
三十八年，伐秦，败我武下，得其将识。
是岁，文侯卒，子击立，是为武侯。
魏武侯元年，赵敬侯初立，公子朔为乱，不胜，奔魏，与魏袭邯郸，魏败而去。
二年，城安邑、王垣。
七年，伐齐，至桑丘。
九年，翟败我于澮。
使吴起伐齐，至灵丘。
齐威王初立。
translation: 
How can you compare with Wei Chengzi?
Wei Chengzi had a thousand-minute salary, nine-tenths of which were spent outside and one-tenth at home, so he hired Bu Zixia, Tian Zifang, and Duan Qianmu from the east.
These three people, the monarch regarded them as teachers.
The king has appointed the five people you recommended as his ministers.
How can you compare with Wei Chengzi?
Zhai Huang hesitated and then bowed and said, "I, Zhai Huang, am a shallow person and speak inappropriately. I am willing to be your disciple for life."
In the twenty-sixth year of Marquis Wen's reign, Guoshan Mountain collapsed and blocked the Yellow River.
In the 32nd year of Marquis Wen, the Wei army attacked Zheng Guo.
Build a city in jujube.
Defeat the Qin army in Zhucheng.
In the thirty-fifth year, the Qi army captured Xiangling of Wei State.
In the thirty-sixth year, the Qin army invaded the Yin and Jin Dynasties of Wei.
In the thirty-eighth year of Marquis Wen, the Wei army attacked Qin and was defeated by Wu Xia. Wei captured Qin General Shi.
In this year, Marquis Wen died and Zicheng ascended the throne, becoming Marquis Wu.
In the first year of Wei Wuhou, Zhao Jinghou had just ascended the throne. Young Master Shuo rebelled, but failed. He fled to the Wei State and attacked Handan with the Wei Army. The Wei Army withdrew after its failure.
In the second year of Wuhou's reign, he built cities in Anyi and Wangyuan.
In the seventh year of Marquis Wu, the Wei army attacked Qi and reached Sangqiu.
In the ninth year, the Di people defeated the Wei army at Huishui.
The Marquis of Wei sent Wu Qi to attack Qi and reached Lingqiu.
King Qi Wei has just ascended the throne.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
十一年，与韩、赵三分晋地，灭其後。
十三年，秦献公县栎阳。
十五年，败赵北蔺。
十六年，伐楚，取鲁阳。武侯卒，子立，是为惠王。
惠王元年，初，武侯卒也，子与公中缓争为太子。
公孙颀自宋入赵，自赵入韩，谓韩懿侯曰： 魏与公中缓争为太子，君亦闻之乎？
今魏得王错，挟上党，固半国也。
因而除之，破魏必矣，不可失也。
懿侯说，乃与赵成侯合军并兵以伐魏，战于浊泽，魏氏大败，魏君围。
赵谓韩曰： 除魏君，立公中缓，割地而退，我且利。
韩曰： 不可。
杀魏君，人必曰暴；割地而退，人必曰贪。
不如两分之。魏分为两，不彊於宋、卫，则我终无魏之患矣。
赵不听。
韩不说，以其少卒夜去。
惠王之所以身不死，国不分者，二家谋不和也。若从一家之谋，则魏必分矣。
故曰 君终无適子，其国可破也 。
translation: 
In the eleventh year of Wuhou's reign, Wei, Han, and Zhao divided the territory of Jin and eliminated its descendants.
In the thirteenth year of Marquis Wu's reign, Duke Xian of Qin moved his capital to Yueyang.
In the fifteenth year, the Wei army defeated the Zhao army in Beilin.
In the 16th year of Marquis Wu, the Wei army attacked Chu and occupied Luyang. Marquis Wu died and Ziyi came to the throne. This was King Hui.
The first year of King Hui. At first, when Marquis Wu died, Ziyi and Gong Zhongxu vied for the title of crown prince.
Gongsun Qi went from Song to Zhao, and then from Zhao to South Korea, and said to Han Yihou: "Wei Wei is competing with Gongzhong Xu to be the crown prince. Have you heard about this?"
Now that Wei Wei has been assisted by Wang Cuo and has Shangdang, he can count as half of the country.
Take advantage of this opportunity to get rid of him and defeat Wei. This opportunity must not be lost.
Marquis Yi was very happy, so he joined forces with Marquis Zhao Cheng to attack the state of Wei. They fought at Zhuoze. The state of Wei was defeated and the king of Wei was besieged.
The Marquis of Zhao said to the Marquis of Han: It will be in our interest to get rid of the king of Wei, let the Duke ascend to the throne slowly, and withdraw the troops after the territory is ceded.
Han Hou said: This cannot be done.
If we kill Wei Jun, people will definitely accuse us of cruelty; if we cede territory and retreat, people will definitely accuse us of greed.
It is better to divide the Wei State into two halves. The Wei State is divided into two countries, which will not be stronger than the Song State and the Wei State. Then we will never have the disasters of the Wei State.
Zhao Hou refused to listen.
The Marquis of Han was unhappy and led some of his troops to leave overnight.
The reason why King Hui of Wei did not die and the Wei State was not divided was because the two families of Han and Zhao had different opinions. If the opinions of one family were followed, the Wei State would definitely be divided.
Therefore, if the monarch dies without a legitimate son to succeed him, the country may be conquered.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
二年，魏败韩于马陵，败赵于怀。
三年，齐败我观。
五年，与韩会宅阳。
城武堵。
为秦所败。
六年，伐取宋仪台。
九年，伐败韩于澮。
与秦战少梁，虏我将公孙痤，取庞。
秦献公卒，子孝公立。
十年，伐取赵皮牢。
彗星见。
十二年，星昼坠，有声。
十四年，与赵会鄗。
十五年，鲁、卫、宋、郑君来朝。
十六年，与秦孝公会杜平。
侵宋黄池，宋复取之。
十七年，与秦战元里，秦取我少梁。
围赵邯郸。
十八年，拔邯郸。
赵请救于齐，齐使田忌、孙膑救赵，败魏桂陵。
十九年，诸侯围我襄陵。
筑长城，塞固阳。
二十年，归赵邯郸，与盟漳水上。
二十一年，与秦会彤。
赵成侯卒。
二十八年，齐威王卒。
中山君相魏。
三十年，魏伐赵，赵告急齐。
齐宣王用孙子计，救赵击魏。
魏遂大兴师，使庞涓将，而令太子申为上将军。
translation: 
In the second year of King Hui's reign, the Wei army defeated the Han army in Maling and the Zhao army in Huaiyi.
In three years, the Qi army defeated the Wei army in Guancheng.
In the fifth year, the King of Wei and the Marquis of Han met in Zhaiyang.
Build weapons to block the city.
The Wei army was defeated by the Qin army.
In six years, he captured the Yitai of Song Dynasty.
In the ninth year, he attacked and defeated the Korean army in Huishui.
The Wei army fought with the Qin army in Shaoliang. The Qin army captured Wei general Gongsun Cuo and captured Pangcheng.
Duke Xiang of Qin passed away, and his son Duke Xiao came to the throne.
In the tenth year of King Hui's reign, the Wei army captured Zhao's Pi Lao.
A comet appears.
Twelve years ago, a meteorite fell during the day and there was a sound.
In the fourteenth year of King Hui, King Wei and Marquis Zhao met in Haoyi.
In the fifteenth year, the monarchs of Lu, Wei, Song and Zheng came to see King Wei Hui.
In the sixteenth year, King Hui of Wei and Duke Xiao of Qin met in Duping.
He invaded Huangchi of the Song Dynasty, and the Song Dynasty took it back.
In the seventeenth year of King Hui's reign, the Wei army and the Qin army fought in Yuanli, and the Qin army captured Wei's Shaoliang.
The Wei army surrounded Handan of Zhao State.
In the eighteenth year, the Wei army captured Handan.
Zhao State asked Qi State for reinforcements. Qi State sent Tian Ji and Sun Bin to rescue Zhao and defeated the Wei army in Guiling.
In the nineteenth year of King Hui, the princes united to surround Xiangling of Wei State.
The Great Wall was built and Guyang became a fortress.
In the 20th year of King Hui's reign, the State of Wei returned Handan to the State of Zhao. The King of Wei and the Marquis of Zhao met at the bank of the Zhang River for an alliance.
In the twenty-first year, I met Qin Jun in Tong.
Zhao Chenghou passed away.
In the twenty-eighth year, King Qi Wei passed away.
Zhongshan Jun was appointed as the prime minister of Wei.
In the 30th year of King Hui's reign, the Wei army attacked the State of Zhao, and the State of Zhao asked Qi for help.
King Xuan of Qi used Sun Tzu's strategy to attack Wei and rescue Zhao.
Wei then sent a large number of troops, led by Pang Juan, and made Prince Shen the general.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
过外黄，外黄徐子谓太子曰： 臣有百战百胜之术。
太子曰： 可得闻乎？
客曰： 固原效之。
曰： 太子自将攻齐，大胜并莒，则富不过有魏，贵不益为王。
若战不胜齐，则万世无魏矣。
此臣之百战百胜之术也。
太子曰： 诺，请必从公之言而还矣。
客曰： 太子虽欲还，不得矣。
彼劝太子战攻，欲啜汁者众。
太子虽欲还，恐不得矣。
太子因欲还，其御曰： 将出而还，与北同。
太子果与齐人战，败於马陵。
齐虏魏太子申，杀将军涓，军遂大破。
三十一年，秦、赵、齐共伐我，秦将商君诈我将军公子卬而袭夺其军，破之。
秦用商君，东地至河，而齐、赵数破我，安邑近秦，於是徙治大梁。
以公子赫为太子。
三十三年，秦孝公卒，商君亡秦归魏，魏怒，不入。
translation: 
When the Wei army passed by Waihuang, Xuzi said to Prince Shen: I have a way to win every battle.
The prince said: Can you let me hear it?
Xu Zi said: I originally wanted to present it to you.
He went on to say: The prince personally leads the troops to attack Qi. Even if he wins a great victory and captures the land of Ju, his wealth will only be that of owning the Kingdom of Wei, and his wealth will only be that of being the king of Wei.
If we cannot defeat Qi, our descendants will not be able to capture Wei for eternity.
This is my winning formula.
Prince Shen said: Well, I will definitely follow your advice and return to China.
Xu Zi said: Although the prince wants to go back, it is no longer possible.
There are too many people who persuade the prince to fight and want to benefit from it.
Although the prince wants to go back, I'm afraid it's impossible.
The prince then wanted to go back, but his driver said: "Going back as soon as the general leads the troops is the same as losing the battle."
As expected, Prince Shen fought against the Qi army and was defeated at Maling.
The Qi army captured Wei Prince Shen and killed general Pang Juan. The Wei army was finally defeated.
In the 31st year of King Hui, Qin, Zhao, and Qi attacked Wei together. Qin general Shang Yang defrauded and captured Wei general Gongzi Yan, and then attacked and captured his army, defeating the Wei army.
Qin appointed Shang Yang, and the territory to the east reached the Yellow River. Qi and Zhao defeated Wei many times, and Anyi was close to Qin, so Wei moved its capital to Daliang.
Prince He was made the crown prince.
In the thirty-third year of King Hui, Duke Xiao of Qin passed away. Shang Yang fled from Qin and went to Wei. The people of Wei were angry and did not take him in.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
三十五年，与齐宣王会平阿南。
惠王数被於军旅，卑礼厚币以招贤者。邹衍、淳于髡、孟轲皆至梁。
梁惠王曰： 寡人不佞，兵三折於外，太子虏，上将死，国以空虚，以羞先君宗庙社稷，寡人甚丑之，叟不远千里，辱幸至弊邑之廷，将何利吾国？
孟轲曰： 君不可以言利若是。
夫君欲利则大夫欲利，大夫欲利则庶人欲利，上下争利，国则危矣。
为人君，仁义而已矣，何以利为！
三十六年，复与齐王会甄。
是岁，惠王卒，子襄王立。
襄王元年，与诸侯会徐州，相王也。
追尊父惠王为王。
五年，秦败我龙贾军四万五千于雕阴，围我焦、曲沃。
予秦河西之地。
六年，与秦会应。
秦取我汾阴、皮氏、焦。
魏伐楚，败之陉山。
translation: 
In the thirty-fifth year, King Wei and King Xuan of Qi met in the south of Pingyang.
King Hui suffered repeated military defeats, so he used courteous etiquette and generous gifts to recruit wise men. Zou Yan, Chunyu Kun, and Meng Ke all came to Wei.
King Hui of Liang said: I have no talent, my army suffered setbacks abroad three times, the prince was captured, the general died in battle, the country was empty, and the ancestral temple and the country were humiliated, and I was very ashamed. The old gentleman condescended to visit the court of our country in person. How will he benefit our country?
Meng Ke said: A monarch cannot talk about interests like this.
If the monarch wants to make a profit, then the officials also want to make a profit; if the officials want to make a profit, then the people also want to make a profit. If everyone from top to bottom strives for profit, the country will be in danger.
As a monarch of a country, it is enough to be benevolent and righteous. Why should we be concerned about profit?
In the thirty-sixth year of King Hui's reign, he met King Qi again in Zhenyi.
In this year, King Hui died and his son King Xiang came to the throne.
In the first year of King Xiang, King Wei and the princes met in Xuzhou to proclaim each other king.
King Xiang pursued and honored his father, King Hui, as king.
In the fifth year of King Xiang, the Qin army defeated the 45,000-strong army led by Long Jia of Wei State in Diaoyin, and besieged Jiaocheng and Quwo of Wei State.
Wei State ceded the land west of Hexi to Qin State.
In the sixth year of King Xiang, King Wei and King Qin met in Yingcheng.
The Qin army captured Wei's Fenyin, Pishi and Jiaocheng.
The Wei army conquered Chu and defeated the Chu army at Xingshan.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
七年，魏尽入上郡于秦。
秦降我蒲阳。
八年，秦归我焦、曲沃。
十二年，楚败我襄陵。
诸侯执政与秦相张仪会齧桑。
十三年，张仪相魏。
魏有女子化为丈夫。
秦取我曲沃、平周。
十六年，襄王卒，子哀王立。
张仪复归秦。
哀王元年，五国共攻秦，不胜而去。
二年，齐败我观津。
五年，秦使樗里子伐取我曲沃，走犀首岸门。
六年，秦来立公子政为太子。
与秦会临晋。
七年，攻齐。
与秦伐燕。
八年，伐卫，拔列城二。
见卫君曰： 请罢魏兵，免成陵君可乎？
卫君曰： 先生果能，孤请世世以卫事先生。
如耳见成陵君曰： 昔者魏伐赵，断羊肠，拔阏与，约斩赵，赵分而为二，所以不亡者，魏为从主也。
今卫已迫亡，将西请事於秦。
与其以秦醳卫，不如以魏醳卫，卫之德魏必终无穷。 成陵君曰： 诺。
translation: 
In seven years, the State of Wei gave all Shangjun to the State of Qin.
The Qin army occupied Puyang in the Wei state.
In the eighth year, Qin returned Jiaocheng and Quwo to Wei.
In the twelfth year of King Xiang, the Chu army defeated the Wei army in Xiangling.
The ruling ministers of the various vassal states met with Qin Prime Minister Zhang Yi at Zhisang.
In the thirteenth year, Zhang Yi was appointed prime minister of Wei.
A woman in Wei State turned into a man.
The Qin army captured Quwo and Pingzhou in Wei.
In the sixteenth year of King Xiang, King Xiang died, and his son King Ai came to the throne.
Zhang Yi returned to Qin.
In the first year of King Ai, the five kingdoms jointly attacked Qin, but they withdrew their troops without victory.
In the second year of King Ai's reign, the Qi army defeated the Wei army in Guanjin.
In the fifth year, the State of Qin sent Chuilizi to attack Quwo of the State of Wei, and drove away Gongsun Yan, the rhinoceros leader, at Anmen.
In the sixth year, the state of Qin sent people to the state of Wei to establish Wei Gongzi Zheng as the crown prince.
The King of Wei and the King of Qin met in Linjin.
In the seventh year, the Wei army attacked Qi.
Together with the Qin army, he conquered the State of Yan.
In the eighth year of King Ai's reign, the Wei army attacked Weiguo and captured two cities.
The King of Wei was very worried. The official of Wei, Ru Er, went to see King Wei and said, "Is it okay for me to make Wei withdraw its troops and remove King Chengling?"
Wei Jun said: If you really can do it, I am willing to serve you with the defense of the country from generation to generation.
Ru'er saw Chenglingjun and said: In the past, the Wei army attacked Zhao, cut off the Yangchang Ban, captured Yanyu, and prepared to split the Zhao State into two halves. However, the reason why the Zhao State did not perish was because the Wei State was the leader of the alliance.
Now that Wei is on the verge of destruction, it will ask the west to serve Qin.
Rather than letting Qin rescue Wei, it is better for Wei to release Wei. In this way, Wei will always be grateful for Wei's kindness. Cheng Lingjun said: Yes.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
如耳见魏王曰： 臣有谒於卫。
卫故周室之别也，其称小国，多宝器。
今国迫於难而宝器不出者，其心以为攻卫醳卫不以王为主，故宝器虽出必不入於王也。
臣窃料之，先言醳卫者必受卫者也。
如耳出，成陵君入，以其言见魏王。
魏王听其说，罢其兵，免成陵君，终身不见。
九年，与秦王会临晋。
张仪、魏章皆归于魏。
魏相田需死，楚害张仪、犀首、薛公。
楚相昭鱼谓苏代曰： 田需死，吾恐张仪、犀首、薛公有一人相魏者也。
代曰： 然相者欲谁而君便之？
昭鱼曰： 吾欲太子之自相也。
代曰： 请为君北，必相之。 昭鱼曰： 柰何？
对曰： 君其为梁王，代请说君。 昭鱼曰： 柰何？
对曰： 代也从楚来，昭鱼甚忧，曰： 田需死，吾恐张仪、犀首、薛公有一人相魏者也。
代曰： 梁王，长主也，必不相张仪。
张仪相，必右秦而左魏。
犀首相，必右韩而左魏。
薛公相，必右齐而左魏。
梁王，长主也，必不便也。
王曰： 然则寡人孰相？
代曰： 莫若太子之自相。
太子之自相，是三人者皆以太子为非常相也，皆将务以其国事魏，欲得丞相玺也。
以魏之彊，而三万乘之国辅之，魏必安矣。
故曰莫若太子之自相也。
translation: 
Ru'er went to see King Wei again and said: "I once went to see Lord Wei."
Weiguo was originally a branch of the Zhou royal family. Although it was known as a small country, it had many treasures.
Now that the country is in danger, but the treasures have not been donated, the reason is that they believe that it is not up to the king to attack the Weiguo or release the Weiguo, so even if the treasures are offered, they will definitely not reach the hands of the king.
The minister secretly guessed that the person who first proposed to release Wei Guo must be the person who accepted Wei Guo's bribe.
After Ru'er went out, Lord Chengling came in and paid homage to King Wei as Ru'er said.
The King of Wei listened to his opinion and withdrew the Wei army. At the same time, he was relieved of his position as Lord Chengling and never saw him again for life.
In the ninth year of King Ai's reign, King Wei and King Qin met in Linjin.
Zhang Yi and Wei Zhang both surrendered to Wei.
Wei's prime minister Tian Xian died, and Chu was afraid that Zhang Yi, Xishou or Xue Gong would become Wei's prime minister.
Zhao Yu, the prime minister of Chu, said to Su Dai: Tian Xian is dead, I'm afraid one of Zhang Yi, Xishou and Xue Gong will become the prime minister of Wei.
Su Dai said: Then who is the prime minister who is beneficial to you?
Zhaoyu said: I want the crown prince of Wei to be the prime minister himself.
Su Dai said: Please allow me to go north for you, and I will definitely make him prime minister. Zhaoyu said: What should I do?
Su Dai replied: "You are the King of Liang, please let me lobby the King of Liang." Zhaoyu said: What did you say?
Su Dai replied: I came from the state of Chu. Zhaoyu was very worried. He said: Tian Xian has passed away. I am afraid that one of Zhang Yi, Xishou and Xue Gong will become the prime minister of Wei.
I said: The King of Liang is a wise king and will definitely not let Zhang Yi become prime minister.
If Zhang Yi becomes prime minister, he will definitely favor Qin and not help Wei.
If Xishou became prime minister, he would definitely favor South Korea and not help Wei.
When Duke Xue became prime minister, he would definitely favor Qi and not help Wei.
The King of Liang was a wise king and he must have known that this was not good for Wei.
King Wei would say: So who should I make as prime minister?
I said: It is better to let the prince be the prime minister himself.
If the prince himself becomes prime minister, these three people will think that the prince is not prime minister for a long time, and they will try their best to make their original country serve Wei, hoping to gain the status of prime minister.
With the strength of Wei State and the assistance of the three major powers, Wei State will definitely be stable.
So it is better to let the prince be the prime minister himself.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
遂北见梁王，以此告之。
太子果相魏。
十年，张仪死。
十一年，与秦武王会应。
十二年，太子朝於秦。
秦来伐我皮氏，未拔而解。
十四年，秦来归武王后。
十六年，秦拔我蒲反、阳晋、封陵。
十七年，与秦会临晋。
秦予我蒲反。
十八年，与秦伐楚。
二十一年，与齐、韩共败秦军函谷。
二十三年，秦复予我河外及封陵为和。
哀王卒，子昭王立。
昭王元年，秦拔我襄城。
二年，与秦战，我不利。
三年，佐韩攻秦，秦将白起败我军伊阙二十四万。
六年，予秦河东地方四百里。
芒卯以诈重。
七年，秦拔我城大小六十一。
八年，秦昭王为西帝，齐湣王为东帝，月馀，皆复称王归帝。
九年，秦拔我新垣、曲阳之城。
十年，齐灭宋，宋王死我温。
十二年，与秦、赵、韩、燕共伐齐，败之济西，湣王出亡。
燕独入临菑。
与秦王会西周。
十三年，秦拔我安城。
兵到大梁，去。
十八年，秦拔郢，楚王徙陈。
十九年，昭王卒，子安釐王立。
安釐王元年，秦拔我两城。
二年，又拔我二城，军大梁下，韩来救，予秦温以和。
三年，秦拔我四城，斩首四万。
四年，秦破我及韩、赵，杀十五万人，走我将芒卯。
魏将段干子请予秦南阳以和。
苏代谓魏王曰： 欲玺者段干子也，欲地者秦也。
今王使欲地者制玺，使欲玺者制地，魏氏地不尽则不知已。
translation: 
So he went north to see the King of Wei and told him these words.
As expected, the crown prince of Wei became prime minister.
In the tenth year of King Ai's reign, Zhang Yi passed away.
In the eleventh year, King Wei and King Wu of Qin met in Yingcheng.
In the twelfth year, the prince of Wei went to Qin to pay homage.
The Qin army came to attack the Pi family of Wei, but they withdrew without conquering.
In the fourteenth year, the State of Qin sent King Qin Wu and Queen Wu back to the State of Wei.
In the 16th year, the Qin army captured Pufan, Yangjin and Fenling in Wei.
In the seventeenth year, King Wei and King Qin met in Linjin.
The State of Qin returned Pu Fan to the State of Wei.
In the eighteenth year, Wei and Qin jointly attacked Chu.
In the 21st year, the Wei army, Qi army, and Han army jointly defeated the Qin army at Hanguguan.
In the twenty-third year of King Ai's reign, Qin returned the land beyond the river and the tombs to Wei and made peace with Wei.
King Ai died and his son King Zhao came to the throne.
In the first year of King Zhao, the Qin army captured Xiangcheng of Wei State.
In the second year, the Wei army fought with the Qin army, and the Wei army lost.
In three years, Wei helped South Korea attack Qin, and Qin general Bai Qi defeated 240,000 Korean and Wei troops in Yique.
In the sixth year, the state of Wei ceded four hundred miles of land east of the river to the state of Qin.
Mang Mao was reused by Wei State because of his good use of deceitful tactics.
In seven years, the Qin army captured 61 large and small cities in Wei.
In the eighth year, King Zhao of Qin personally proclaimed himself the Western Emperor, and King Qi Min proclaimed himself the Eastern Emperor. After more than a month, they both proclaimed themselves kings again and took back their imperial titles.
In the ninth year, the Qin army captured the two cities of Wei Guo, Xinyuan and Quyang.
In the tenth year of King Zhao, the State of Qi destroyed the State of Song, and the King of Song died in Wenyi, the State of Wei.
In the twelfth year, Wei, Qin, Zhao, Han, and Yan jointly attacked Qi and defeated the Qi army in Jixi. King Min of Qi fled.
The Yan army entered Linzi alone.
The king of Wei and the king of Qin met in the Western Zhou Dynasty.
In the thirteenth year of King Zhao, the Qin army captured Wei's Ancheng.
The army arrived at Daliang and withdrew again.
In the eighteenth year, the Qin army captured the capital of Chu State, Ying, and the king of Chu moved the capital to Chencheng.
In the nineteenth year of King Zhao, King Zhao passed away and his son King Anli came to the throne.
In the first year of King Anli, the Qin army captured two cities in Wei.
In the second year, two more cities of the Wei State were captured, and Chen Bing was under Daliang City. South Korea sent troops to rescue and gave Wenyi to Qin to seek peace.
In three years, the Qin army captured four cities in Wei and killed 40,000 people.
In four years, the Qin army defeated the Wei army, Han army, and Zhao army, killed 150,000 people, and drove away the Wei general Mangmao.
Wei general Duan Qianzi requested that Nanyang be surrendered to Qin for peace.
Su Dai said to the King of Wei: Duan Qianzi is the one who wants to be promoted, and Qin is the one who wants the land.
Now the king lets those who want land control the official seal, and lets those who want promotion control the land. Wei will not end until all its land is given away.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
且夫以地事秦，譬犹抱薪救火，薪不尽，火不灭。
王曰： 是则然也。虽然，事始已行，不可更矣。
对曰： 王独不见夫博之所以贵枭者，便则食，不便则止矣。
今王曰 事始已行，不可更 ，是何王之用智不如用枭也？
九年，秦拔我怀。十年，秦太子外质於魏死。
十一年，秦拔我郪丘。
秦昭王谓左右曰： 今时韩、魏与始孰彊？
对曰： 不如始彊。
王曰： 今时如耳、魏齐与孟尝、芒卯孰贤？
对曰： 不如。
王曰： 以孟尝、芒卯之贤，率彊韩、魏以攻秦，犹无柰寡人何也。
今以无能之如耳、魏齐而率弱韩、魏以伐秦，其无柰寡人何亦明矣。
左右皆曰： 甚然。
中旗冯琴而对曰： 王之料天下过矣。
translation: 
Besides, using the land to serve Qin is like holding dry sticks to put out a fire. The fire will not be extinguished until the sticks are burned out.
King Wei said: Of course, even so, things have already been implemented and cannot be changed.
Su Dai replied: Your Majesty has never seen anyone playing gambling, so he pays special attention to the owl, because if it is profitable, he can take the opponent's piece, and if it is unprofitable, he can stop.
Now that the king has said that things have begun to be implemented and cannot be changed, why is the king's use of wisdom inferior to the use of owl in gambling?
In the ninth year of King Anli's reign, the Qin army captured Wei's Huaiyi. In the tenth year, the prince of Qin who was a hostage in Wei died.
In the eleventh year, the Qin army captured Wei Qiu.
King Zhao of Qin said to his ministers: In which stage are Han and Wei stronger now than when they first started?
He replied: It is not as strong as when you first started.
The King of Qin said: "Compared with Ru'er and Wei Qi now, and Mengchang Lord and Mangmao in the past, who is more worthy?"
He replied: Ru'er and Wei Qi are not as good as Mengchangjun and Mangmao.
The King of Qin said: With the talents of Lord Mengchang and Mangmao, they led the strong troops of Han and Wei to attack Qin, but they still failed to do anything to me.
Now that the weak Han and Wei armies are led by the incompetent Ru'er and Wei Qi to attack Qin, it is obvious that they cannot do anything to me.
The courtiers on the left and right said: That's so right.
Zhongqi leaned on his qin and replied: Your Majesty's estimate of the world's situation was wrong.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
当晋六卿之时，知氏最彊，灭范、中行，又率韩、魏之兵以围赵襄子於晋阳，决晋水以灌晋阳之城，不湛者三版。
知伯行水，魏桓子御，韩康子为参乘。
知伯曰： 吾始不知水之可以亡人之国也，乃今知之。
汾水可以灌安邑，绛水可以灌平阳。
魏桓子肘韩康子，韩康子履魏桓子，肘足接於车上，而知氏地分，身死国亡，为天下笑。
今秦兵虽彊，不能过知氏；韩、魏虽弱，尚贤其在晋阳之下也。
此方其用肘足之时也，原王之勿易也！
於是秦王恐。
齐、楚相约而攻魏，魏使人求救於秦，冠盖相望也，而秦救不至。
魏人有唐雎者，年九十馀矣，谓魏王曰： 老臣请西说秦王，令兵先臣出。
translation: 
When the Six Ministers of the Jin Dynasty were in power, the Zhi family was the strongest. They destroyed the Fan family and the Zhonghang family. They also led the troops of Han and Wei to besiege Zhao Xiangzi in Jinyang. They opened up the Jin River and flooded the Jinyang city, leaving only three levels high.
Zhibo inspected the water situation, Wei Huanzi drove the car, and Han Kangzi accompanied him on the right side of the car.
Zhibo said: At first I didn't know that water can destroy other people's countries, but now I know.
Since the Jin River can flood Jinyang, the Fen River can naturally flood Anyi, the capital of Wei, and the Jiang River can also flood Pingyang, the capital of Han.
So Wei Huanzi touched Han Kangzi with his elbow, and Han Kangzi also touched Wei Huanzi with his foot. The two made secret gestures with their elbows and feet in the car. As a result, Zhishi's territory was divided, Zhibo died and his country was destroyed, and he was laughed at by the people of the world.
Although the Qin soldiers are stronger now, they will not surpass Zhishi; although Han and Wei are weaker, they are still better than when they were under Jinyang City.
Now is the time for them to secretly unite with each other with their elbows and feet. I hope the king will not take the situation too simply!
So King Qin was a little frightened.
Qi and Chu united to attack Wei. Wei sent people to Qin to ask for help. There was an endless stream of envoys, but Qin's reinforcements did not come.
There was a man named Tang Sui in the State of Wei who was over ninety years old. He said to the King of Wei: The old minister requested to go to the west to lobby the King of Qin, and I must let the Qin army set off before I leave Qin.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
魏王再拜，遂约车而遣之。
唐雎到，入见秦王。
秦王曰： 丈人芒然乃远至此，甚苦矣！
夫魏之来求救数矣，寡人知魏之急已。
唐雎对曰： 大王已知魏之急而救不发者，臣窃以为用策之臣无任矣。
夫魏，一万乘之国也，然所以西面而事秦，称东籓，受冠带，祠春秋者，以秦之彊足以为与也。
今齐、楚之兵已合於魏郊矣，而秦救不发，亦将赖其未急也。
使之大急，彼且割地而约从，王尚何救焉？
必待其急而救之，是失一东籓之魏而彊二敌之齐、楚，则王何利焉？
於是秦昭王遽为发兵救魏。魏氏复定。
赵使人谓魏王曰： 为我杀范痤，吾请献七十里之地。
魏王曰： 诺。
使吏捕之，围而未杀。
translation: 
When the king of Wei paid his respects again, he prepared his chariot and sent him there.
Tang Sui went to the Qin State and went to the palace to pay homage to the King of Qin.
The King of Qin said: It is so hard for the old man to come all the way to Qin State, exhausted!
Wei Guo has come to ask for help many times, and I know Wei Guo's crisis.
Tang Sui replied: Since the king already knew the crisis of Wei State but did not send reinforcements, I privately thought that the minister who made the plans was incompetent.
Wei was a big country with tens of thousands of chariots. The reason why Wei served Qin to the west, was called the Eastern vassal, accepted the clothes and crowns given by Qin, and sent sacrifices to Qin in spring and autumn, was because Qin was strong enough to become an ally.
Now the armies of Qi and Chu have gathered on the outskirts of Wei's capital, but Qin has not yet sent reinforcements, which means it is not too critical to rely on Wei.
If it comes to a particularly critical moment and it wants to cede territory to join the Hezong Group, what else are you going to save, Your Majesty?
You must wait until it is in danger before you save it. This means losing a Wei vassal in the east and strengthening the two enemy countries of Qi and Chu. So what benefits do you have, my king?
So King Zhao of Qin immediately sent troops to rescue Wei State, and Wei State restored stability.
The State of Zhao sent people to say to King Wei: "Kill Fan Cuo for me, and we are willing to give up seventy miles of land."
King Wei said: OK.
So he sent officials to arrest Fan Cuo and surrounded his home but did not kill him.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
痤因上屋骑危，谓使者曰： 与其以死痤市，不如以生痤市。
有如痤死，赵不予王地，则王将柰何？
故不若与先定割地，然後杀痤。 魏王曰： 善。
痤因上书信陵君曰： 痤，故魏之免相也，赵以地杀痤而魏王听之，有如彊秦亦将袭赵之欲，则君且柰何？
信陵君言於王而出之。
魏王以秦救之故，欲亲秦而伐韩，以求故地。
无忌谓魏王曰：
秦与戎翟同俗，有虎狼之心，贪戾好利无信，不识礼义德行。
苟有利焉，不顾亲戚兄弟，若禽兽耳，此天下之所识也，非有所施厚积德也。
故太后母也，而以忧死；穰侯舅也，功莫大焉，而竟逐之；两弟无罪，而再夺之国。
此於亲戚若此，而况於仇雠之国乎？
translation: 
Fan Cuo then went up to the roof and rode on the ridge, and said to the envoy: It is better to trade with Fan Cuo alive than to trade with dead Fan Cuo.
If I, Fan Cuo, are killed but the State of Zhao does not give the king any land, what will the king do?
So it is better to demarcate the ceded land with Zhao Guo first, and then kill me. King Wei said: Very good.
Fan Cuo then wrote to Lord Xinling, saying: Fan Cuo was the prime minister who was dismissed from the Wei State in the past. The State of Zhao demanded that I be killed in exchange for ceding territory, but the King of Wei actually obeyed. If Qiang Qin follows the same method as the State of Zhao to treat you, what will you do?
Fan Cuo was released after Lord Xinling remonstrated with King Zhao.
Because Qin had rescued King Wei, he wanted to get close to Qin and attack South Korea in order to regain his original land.
Lord Xinling Wuji said to King Wei:
The people of Qin and Di Rong have the same customs. They are like tigers and wolves, greedy and vicious, greedy for profit but not trustworthy, and do not understand etiquette, justice and virtue.
If it is beneficial, they will not even care about their relatives and brothers, just like animals. Everyone in the world knows this, and they have never shown kindness or accumulated great virtues.
Therefore, the Queen Mother was originally the mother of the King of Qin, but she died of sorrow; Ranghou was the uncle of the King of Qin and had no greater merit than him, but she expelled him; the two younger brothers of the King of Qin were not guilty, but they were deprived of their fiefdoms again and again.
If this is true for relatives, how much more for the country of enemies?


Chunk 16: 
original: 
今王与秦共伐韩而益近秦患，臣甚惑之。
而王不识则不明，群臣莫以闻则不忠。
今韩氏以一女子奉一弱主，内有大乱，外交彊秦魏之兵，王以为不亡乎？
韩亡，秦有郑地，与大梁鄴，王以为安乎？
王欲得故地，今负彊秦之亲，王以为利乎？
秦非无事之国也，韩亡之後必将更事，更事必就易与利，就易与利必不伐楚与赵矣。
是何也？
夫越山逾河，绝韩上党而攻彊赵，是复阏与之事，秦必不为也。
若道河内，倍鄴、朝歌，绝漳滏水，与赵兵决於邯郸之郊，是知伯之祸也，秦又不敢。
伐楚，道涉谷，行三千里。而攻冥戹之塞，所行甚远，所攻甚难，秦又不为也。
若道河外，倍大梁，右上蔡、召陵，与楚兵决於陈郊，秦又不敢。
translation: 
Now that the king and Qin jointly attack South Korea, they will be closer to Qin's disaster. I am particularly confused.
Your Majesty, if you don't understand this principle, you are ignorant. If your monarch and ministers do not come to report this principle to you, they are disloyal.
Nowadays, Korea relies on a woman to assist a young and weak monarch. There is great chaos in the country, and there is a battle with the strong troops of Qin and Wei outside. Does the king think it will survive?
After the fall of Korea, the State of Qin will occupy the land of the original State of Zheng, adjacent to Daliang. Does the king think there will be peace?
If the king wants to get the original land, he must rely on his closeness to the powerful Qin. Does the king think this will be beneficial?
The Qin State is not a peaceful country. After the fall of South Korea, there will be another trouble. If another trouble occurs, it must find an easy and beneficial target. If you look for an easy and beneficial target, you must not go to Chu and Zhao.
Why is this?
If you cross the Yellow River across the mountains and pass through Shangdang in South Korea to attack the powerful Zhao State, it will be a repeat of the defeat of Yan Yu. Qin will definitely not do this.
If we go through Hanoi, turn our backs to Yecheng and Chaoge, cross the Zhang River and Fu River, and fight the Zhao army on the outskirts of Handan, we will encounter the same disaster as Zhibo, and Qin dare not do this.
To attack the Chu State, one has to go through Shibuya and march three thousand miles to attack the Ming'e Pass. The road is too far and the place to attack is too difficult, and Qin State will not do this.
If we take the route outside the river, with our back to Daliang, and Shangcai and Zhaoling on our right, we will have a decisive battle with the Chu army on the outskirts of Chencheng, but Qin will not dare.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
故曰秦必不伐楚与赵矣，又不攻卫与齐矣。
夫韩亡之後，兵出之日，非魏无攻已。
秦固有怀、茅、邢丘，城垝津以临河内，河内共、汲。必危；有郑地，得垣雍，决荧泽水灌大梁，大梁必亡。
王之使者出过而恶安陵氏於秦，秦之欲诛之久矣。
秦叶阳、昆阳与舞阳邻，听使者之恶之，随安陵氏而亡之，绕舞阳之北，以东临许，南国必危，国无害乎？
夫憎韩不爱安陵氏可也，夫不患秦之不爱南国非也。
异日者，秦在河西晋，国去梁千里，有河山以阑之，有周韩以间之。
从林乡军以至于今，秦七攻魏，五入囿中，边城尽拔，文台堕，垂都焚，林木伐，麋鹿尽，而国继以围。
又长驱梁北，东至陶卫之郊，北至平监。
所亡於秦者，山南山北，河外河内，大县数十，名都数百。
秦乃在河西晋，去梁千里，而祸若是矣，又况於使秦无韩，有郑地，无河山而阑之，无周韩而间之，去大梁百里，祸必由此矣。
translation: 
Therefore, Qin will definitely not attack Chu and Zhao, let alone Wei and Qi.
After the fall of Korea, when Qin sent troops, there was no one to attack except Wei.
The Qin State already occupied Huaiyi, Maoyi, and Xingqiu. If it built a city at Qinjin and approached Hanoi, Gongcheng and Jiyi in Hanoi would be in danger; the Qin State occupied Zheng's homeland, gained Yuanyong City, and cut off Yingze. Flooding Daliang would definitely cause it to fall.
It was a mistake for the king's envoy to go to Qin, and he slandered the Anling family in Qin. Qin had long wanted to kill it.
Yeyang and Kunyang of the Qin State are adjacent to Wuyang of the Wei State. If the envoys are allowed to slander the Anling family and the Anling family is destroyed, the Qin army will bypass the north of Wuyang and approach Xu's homeland from the east. In this way, the south will be in danger. Is this harmful to the Wei state?
It is okay to hate Korea and dislike the Anling family, but it would be wrong not to worry that Qin does not love the south.
In the past, the State of Qin was in the hometown of the State of Jin in Hexi, thousands of miles away from Daliang. It was blocked by the Yellow River and high mountains, and separated by Zhou and Han.
Since the battle of Linxiang to the present, Qin has attacked Wei seven times and invaded Qinzhong five times. All the border cities have been captured, Wentai has been destroyed, Chuidu has been burned, the trees have been cut down, the elk have been hunted down, and the capital has been besieged.
The Qin army then drove to the north of Daliang, hitting the outskirts of Tao and Wei cities in the east, and hitting Pingjian in the north.
What was lost to the Qin State were the mountains south and north, the rivers outside and inside the rivers, dozens of large counties, and hundreds of famous capitals.
When the State of Qin was still in the hometown of the State of Jin in Hexi, a thousand miles away from Daliang, the disaster was already like this. What's more, let Qin destroy South Korea and occupy the homeland of Zheng. There is no Yellow River mountain to block it, no Zhou and Han to separate it, and it is only a hundred miles away from Daliang. The disaster is bound to start here.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
异日者，从之不成也，楚、魏疑而韩不可得也。
今韩受兵三年，秦桡之以讲，识亡不听，投质於赵，请为天下雁行顿刃，楚、赵必集兵，皆识秦之欲无穷也，非尽亡天下之国而臣海内，必不休矣。
是故臣原以从事王，王速受楚赵之约，而挟韩之质以存韩，而求故地，韩必效之。夫存韩安魏而利天下，此亦王之天时已。
通韩上党於共、甯，使道安成，出入赋之，是魏重质韩以其上党也。今有其赋，足以富国。韩必德魏爱魏重魏畏魏，韩必不敢反魏，是韩则魏之县也。
魏得韩以为县，卫、大梁、河外必安矣。
今不存韩，二周、安陵必危，楚、赵大破，卫、齐甚畏，天下西乡而驰秦入朝而为臣不久矣。
二十年，秦围邯郸，信陵君无忌矫夺将军晋鄙兵以救赵，赵得全。无忌因留赵。
translation: 
In the past, the success of uniting Han Dynasty was because Chu and Wei were suspicious of each other, and it was impossible for South Korea to join the alliance.
Now South Korea has been suffering from war for three years. The state of Qin made it submit and make peace with it. South Korea knew that it was going to perish but refused to obey. Instead, it sent hostages to the state of Zhao, expressing its willingness to be the vanguard of the princes of the world and fight to the death with Qin. Chu and Zhao must gather their troops. They all know that Qin's greed is endless and will never give up unless all the princes and states in the world are completely destroyed and all the people in the sea submit to Qin.
Opening a road from Gongcheng and Ningyi to South Korea's Shangdang, and letting this road pass through Ancheng, and merchants entering and leaving must pay taxes, which is equivalent to Wei Guo using South Korea's Shangdang as a mortgage.
If there are these taxes, it will be enough to make the country rich. South Korea must be grateful to Wei, love Wei, respect Wei, honor Wei, and fear Wei. South Korea must not dare to rebel against Wei. In this way, South Korea will become a county of Wei.
If the Wei State gets South Korea as a county, Wei, Daliang, and Hewai will definitely be able to stabilize.
If Korea is not preserved, the East and West Zhou and Anling will be in danger. After the defeat of Chu and Zhao, Wei and Qi are very afraid. The days when all the princes in the world rush west to Qin to pay homage to Qin are not long.
In the 20th year of King Anli's reign, the Qin army besieged Handan. Wuji, the king of Xinling, falsely conveyed the king's order to seize the army of General Jin Bi to rescue the Zhao State. The Zhao State was preserved, and Wuji therefore stayed in the Zhao State.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
二十六年，秦昭王卒。
三十年，无忌归魏，率五国兵攻秦，败之河外，走蒙骜。
魏太子增质於秦，秦怒，欲囚魏太子增。
或为增谓秦王曰： 公孙喜固谓魏相曰 请以魏疾击秦，秦王怒，必囚增。
魏王又怒，击秦，秦必伤 。
今王囚增，是喜之计中也。
故不若贵增而合魏，以疑之於齐、韩。
秦乃止增。
三十一年，秦王政初立。
三十四年，安釐王卒，太子增立，是为景湣王。
信陵君无忌卒。
景湣王元年，秦拔我二十城，以为秦东郡。
二年，秦拔我朝歌。
徙野王。
三年，秦拔我汲。
五年，秦拔我垣、蒲阳、衍。
十五年，景湣王卒，子王假立。
王假元年，燕太子丹使荆轲刺秦王，秦王觉之。
translation: 
In the twenty-sixth year, King Zhao of Qin passed away.
In the 30th year of King Anli, Wuji returned to Wei and led the armies of the five countries to attack Qin. He defeated the Qin army outside the river and drove away Qin general Meng Ao.
At that time, Prince Zeng of Wei State was a hostage in Qin State. The King of Qin was angry and wanted to imprison Prince Zeng of Wei State.
Someone said to the King of Qin on behalf of Prince Zeng: Gongsun Xi originally said to the Prime Minister of Wei: Please use the Wei army to attack Qin quickly. When the King of Qin is angry, he will definitely imprison Prince Zeng.
This will make King Wei angry and attack Qin again. Qin will definitely hurt Prince Zeng.
Now the king wants to imprison Prince Zeng. This is Gongsun happy's plan.
Therefore, it is better to treat Prince Zeng favorably and have good relations with Wei, and let Qi and South Korea doubt Wei.
Only then did King Qin cancel his plan to imprison Prince Zeng.
In the thirty-first year of King Anli's reign, King Qin began to ascend the throne.
In the thirty-fourth year of King Anli, King Anli died, and Prince Zeng ascended the throne. This was King Jingmin.
Xinlingjun Wuji passed away.
In the first year of King Jingmin, the Qin army captured 20 cities in the Wei State and established them as the East Commandery of the Qin State.
In the second year, the Qin army captured Chaoge of Wei State.
Weiguo moved to Yewang.
In three years, the Qin army captured Jiyi in the state of Wei.
In five years, the Qin army captured Wei's Yuandi, Puyang, and Yanyi.
In the fifteenth year, King Jingmin died, and his son King Wei assumed the throne.
In the first year of King Wei's holiday, Prince Dan of Yan sent Jing Ke to assassinate King Qin, but King Qin discovered it.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
三年，秦灌大梁，虏王假，遂灭魏以为郡县。
太史公曰：吾適故大梁之墟，墟中人曰： 秦之破梁，引河沟而灌大梁，三月城坏，王请降，遂灭魏。
说者皆曰魏以不用信陵君故，国削弱至於亡，余以为不然。
天方令秦平海内，其业未成，魏虽得阿衡之佐，曷益乎？
translation: 
Three years after King Jie of Wei, the Qin army flooded Daliang and captured King Jie of Wei. Finally, the state of Wei was destroyed and established as prefectures and counties.
Tai Shigong said: I have been to the old city site of Daliang. The people there said: The Qin army conquered Daliang by diverting water from the chasm to flood Daliang. After three months, the city was destroyed, and the King of Wei asked for surrender, thus destroying the Wei state.
Those who discussed it all said that because King Wei did not reuse Lord Xinling, the country was weakened and even destroyed. I don't think so.
God's will is for the Qin State to pacify the sea, but its achievements have not yet been completed. Even if the Wei State is assisted by wise ministers like A Heng, what is the use?


