Chunk 0: 
original: 
李固子燮杜乔李固字子坚，汉中南郑人，司徒郃之子也。
郃在《方术传》。
固貌状有奇表，鼎角匿犀，足履龟文。
少好学，常步行寻师，不远千里。
遂究览坟籍，结交英贤。
四方有志之士，多慕其风而来学。
京师咸叹曰 是复为李公矣 司隶、益州并命郡举孝廉，辟司空掾，皆不就。
阳嘉二年，有地动、山崩、火灾之异，公卿举固对策，诏又特问当世之敝，为政所宜。
固对曰：臣闻王者父天母地，宝有山川。
王道得则阴阳和穆，政化乖则崩震为灾。
斯皆关之天心，效于成事者也。
夫化以职成，官由能理。
古之进者，有德有命。今之进者，唯才与力。
伏闻诏书务求宽博，疾恶严暴。
而今长吏多杀伐致声名者，必加迁赏。其存宽和无党援者，辄见斥逐。
是以淳厚之风不宣，雕薄之俗未革。
虽繁刑重禁，何能有益。
前孝安皇帝变乱旧典，封爵阿母，因造妖，使樊丰之徒乘权放恣，侵夺主威，改乱嫡嗣，至令圣躬狼狈，亲遇其艰。
既拔自困殆，龙兴即位，天下喁喁，属望风政。
积敝之后，易致中兴，诚当沛然思惟善道。而论者犹云，方今之事，复同于前。
translation: 
◆The biography of Li Gu, whose courtesy name was Zijian, was from Nanzheng, Hanzhong, and the son of Situ Li Hui.
Li Hui's deeds are in "The Biography of Fang Shu".
The statue of Li Gu has a peculiar appearance. There are bones on the head that protrude like a tripod foot, which rise into the hairline, and there are turtle inscriptions on the feet.
When he was young, he was eager to learn and often traveled thousands of miles to find teachers on foot.
So I read many ancient books and made friends with many wise men.
People with lofty ideals from all over the world envy his style and come to learn from him.
Everyone in the capital admired and said: This is the second Mr. Li again. Both Sili and Yizhou ordered the county governors to promote Li Gu as Xiaolian and call him Sikongpu, but they did not take office.
In the second year of Yangjia, there were earthquakes, landslides, fires and other changes. The ministers recommended Li Gu to take countermeasures. The emperor issued an edict specifically asking him about the shortcomings of the contemporary era and what he should do for government.
Li Gu replied: "I heard that the king regards heaven as his father and earth as his mother, and possesses the treasures of mountains and rivers."
If the royal way works, then Yin and Yang will be harmonious; if politics is disobedient, landslides and earthquakes will become disasters.
This is all related to the heart of heaven, and the results are achieved in achieving things.
The so-called transformation is achieved by job, and officials are able to manage.
In ancient times, those who became officials were all virtuous and had titles; those who become officials today only have wealth and strength.
The ministers heard that the imperial edict sought to be lenient and generous, but resented harshness and cruelty.
However, today's chief officials have made a name for themselves by killing more, and they will definitely be promoted and rewarded; while those who are kind-hearted and have no support from party members are often ostracized and exiled.
Therefore, honest and honest customs cannot be promoted, and Zhou's thin customs cannot be reformed.
Even if we use heavy punishment and heavy prohibition, what is the benefit?
The former Emperor Xiao'an messed up the old rules and conferred a title on his mother, Wang Sheng, thus creating a monster, which allowed Fan Feng and others to take advantage of their power and usurp the majesty of the Lord.
Since he emerged from the crisis and became emperor, everyone in the world is looking up to him, hoping that the political system will change.
After a long time of accumulation, it is easy to revive, and one should indeed be generous and think about the way to do good; but the people who discuss it also say that the current things are the same as before.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
臣伏从山草，痛心伤臆。
实以汉兴以来，三百馀年，贤圣相继，十有八主。
岂无阿乳之恩。
岂忘贵爵之宠。
然上畏天威，俯案经典，知义不可，故不封也。
今宋阿母虽有大功勤谨之德，但加赏赐，足以酧其劳苦。至于裂土开国，实乖旧典。
闻阿母体性谦虚，必有逊让，陛下宜许其辞国之高，使成万安之福。夫妃后之家所以少完全者，岂天性当然。
但以爵位尊显，专总权柄，天道恶盈，不知自损，故至颠仆。
先帝宠遇阎氏，位号太疾，故其受祸，曾不旋时。
《老子》曰 其进锐，其退速也 今梁氏戚为椒房，礼所不臣，尊以高爵，尚可然也。
而子弟群从，荣显兼加，永平、建初故事，殆不如此。
宜令步兵校尉冀及诸侍中还居黄门之官，使权去外戚，政归国家，岂不休乎。又诏书所以禁侍中尚书中臣子弟不得为吏察孝廉者，以其秉戚权，容请托故也。
translation: 
The minister crouched among the mountains and grass, feeling very sad.
Recalling that since the rise of the Han Dynasty, for more than three hundred years, sages and ten and eight monarchs have appeared one after another.
Don’t you have the kindness of Ah Ru?
Have you forgotten the favor of the noble noble?
However, the superiors are afraid of the power of God, and the inferiors know according to the scriptures that they must not violate moral principles, so they do not add rewards.
Now, although Mrs. Song has the character of great merit and diligence, as long as she is rewarded, it will be enough to repay her hard work; as for the enfeoffment of land, it is really contrary to the old rules.
It is said that my grandmother is modest in nature and will inevitably be unreasonable. Your Majesty should praise her noble spirit of resigning from the country and make her a blessing to everyone. Generally speaking, the reason why concubines’ homes are rarely complete is due to nature?
It's just because the title is too high and too obvious, and they monopolize power, and the way of heaven hates fullness the most, but they don't know how to harm themselves, so they fall down.
The late emperor's favor met the Yan family, and his title was established too quickly, so the disaster did not last long.
"Laozi" said: The advance is rapid, and the retreat is rapid. Nowadays, the Liang family's relatives live in the Jiao Fang where the Queen lives. According to etiquette, they cannot treat their wife's parents as ministers. However, it is still okay to treat them as nobles.
However, her children and nephews were both prosperous and distinguished. The story of Yongping and Jianchu years is probably not like this.
Isn't it great that the infantry captain Liang Ji and the other servants should still serve as Huangmen officials, so that the power of the country can be removed from the hands of relatives and the political power should be returned to the country? The reason why the edict prohibits ministers and ministers from serving as officials to inspect filial piety and integrity is because they have authority, take care of personal affairs, and grant requests.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
而中常侍在日月之侧，声势振天下，子弟禄仕，曾无限极。
虽外托谦默，不干州郡，而谄伪之徒，望风进举。
今可为设常禁，同之中臣。昔馆陶公主为子求郎，明帝不许，赐钱千万。
所以轻厚赐，重薄位者，为官人失才，害及百姓也。
窃闻长水司马武宣、开阳城门候羊迪等，无他功德，初拜便真。
此虽小失，而渐坏旧章。
先圣法度，所宜坚守，政教一跌，百年不复。
《诗》云 上帝板板，下民卒瘅 刺周王变祖法度，故使下民将尽病也。今陛下之有尚书，犹天下之有北斗也。
斗为天喉舌，尚书亦为陛下喉舌。
斗斟酌元气，运平四时。
尚书出纳王命，赋政四海，权尊势重，责之所归。
若不平心，灾眚必至。
诚宜审择其人，以毗圣政。
今与陛下共理天下者，外则公卿尚书，内则常侍黄门，譬犹一门之内，一家之事，安则共其福庆，危则通其祸败。
刺史、二千石，外统职事，内受法则。
translation: 
But Zhongchang serves beside the sun and the moon, and his influence is vibrating throughout the world. There is no limit for his children to be officials.
Although he seems to be humble on the outside and does not interfere with the state and county, those who are flattering and hypocritical are relying on the wind to recommend him.
Now you can set up permanent bans, the same as Zhongchen. Once upon a time, Princess Guantao, the third daughter of Emperor Guangwu, asked for a groom for her son. Emperor Ming disagreed and gave her tens of millions of dollars.
Why do we give less generous gifts than give more emphasis on positions? It is because officials lose their talents and harm the people.
I heard secretly that Wuxuan, the Sima of Changshui, and Yangdi, the Hou of Kaiyang City Gate, etc., had no other merits and deeds, so they made up for it when they first paid homage to the officials.
Although this is a small mistake, it slowly breaks the old rules.
The laws of the sages should be adhered to unswervingly. Once there is a mistake in politics and religion, it will take a hundred years to recover.
The Book of Songs says: God is dull, but the people are miserable. This is a mockery of King Zhou Li's way of changing the previous kings, which made his people sick. Now that Your Majesty has a minister, it is like having the Big Dipper in the sky.
Beidou is the mouthpiece of Heaven, and Shangshu is the mouthpiece of His Majesty.
The Beidou measures the vitality and regulates the weather of the four seasons.
The minister pays the king's orders and governs the world. He has great power and responsibility.
If you don't act calmly, disaster will inevitably come.
Indeed, people should be chosen carefully to make up for the holy government.
Now the people who jointly govern the world with Your Majesty are the public officials and ministers on the outside, and the Huangmen on the inside. For example, within a family, if the affairs of the family are peaceful, everyone will be blessed, and if there is danger, everyone will suffer together.
The governor and Erqian Shi control the ministry on the outside, but are restricted by laws on the inside.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
夫表曲者景必邪，源清者流必洁，犹叩树本，百枝皆动也。
《周颂》曰 薄言振之，莫不震叠 此言动之于内，而应于外者也。
由此言之，本朝号令，岂可蹉跌。
间隙一开，则邪人动心。利竞暂启，则仁义道塞。
刑罪不能复禁，化导以之浸坏。
此天下之纪纲，当今之急务。
陛下宜开石室，陈图书，招会群儒，引问失得，指擿变象，以求天意。
其言有中理，即时施行，显拔其人，以表能者。
则圣听日有所闻，忠臣尽其所知。
又宜罢退宦官，去其权重，裁置常侍二人，方直有德者，省事左右。小黄门五人，才智闲雅者，给事殿中。
如此，则论者厌塞，升平可致也。
臣所以敢陈愚瞽，冒昧自闻者，傥或皇天欲令微臣觉悟陛下。陛下宜熟察臣言，怜赦臣死。
顺帝览其对，多所纳用，即进出阿母还弟舍，诸常侍悉叩头谢罪，朝廷肃然。
以固为议郎。而阿母宦者疾固言直，因诈飞章以陷其罪，事从中下。
translation: 
If the surface of anything is distorted, the shadow will be slanted, and the clear water will be clean. It is like knocking on the root of a tree and shaking all the branches.
"Song of Zhou" says: If a thin word shakes it, it will all shake. This means that what is moved in the heart is reflected on the outside.
So, can this dynasty issue orders casually?
Once the gap is opened, evil people will have their own thoughts; if the gap is temporarily open, then the road to benevolence and righteousness will be blocked.
The punishment cannot be reinstated, and the deeds will become bad as a result.
This is the order of the world and the current urgent task.
Your Majesty should open the book in the golden cabinet in the stone chamber, display the books, and recruit a group of Confucian scholars to ask questions about the gains and losses of government, criticize changes, and seek God's will.
What they say makes sense, they implement it immediately, select their people, and commend those who are capable.
Then holy virtues are heard every day, and loyal ministers use their wisdom.
The eunuchs should also be dismissed, their authority should be removed, and two regular servants should be appointed, upright and virtuous people, and let them inspect the affairs on the left and right; five people from Xiaohuangmen, who are intelligent and elegant, should be allowed to work in the palace.
In this way, the people who talk about it will become tired of it, and a peaceful world will come.
The reason why I dare to state foolish words and take the liberty to report to you is that if the emperor wants to enlighten your majesty, your majesty should consider your words carefully and have mercy on me and pardon my death penalty.
Emperor Shun saw the above countermeasures and adopted many of them. He immediately asked his mother to move back to his younger brother's house. All the regular servants kowtowed and apologized, and the court's political discipline was solemn.
He also appointed Li Gu as his minister, but the eunuchs around his mother hated Li Gu for being too outspoken, so they fabricated crimes to frame Li Gu, and everything went from bad to worse.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
大司农黄尚等请之于大将军梁商，又仆射黄琼救明固事，久乃得拜议郎。
出为广汉召隹令，至白水关，解印绶，还汉中，杜门不交人事。
岁中，梁商请为从事中郎。
《春秋》褒仪父以开义路，贬无骇以闭利门，夫义路闭则利门开，利门开则义路闭也。
前孝安皇帝内任伯荣、樊丰之属，外委周广、谢恽之徒，开门受赂，署用非次，天下纷然，怨声满道。
朝廷初立，颇存清静，未能数年，稍复堕损。
左右党进者，日有迁拜，守死善道者，滞洇穷路，而未有改敝立德之方。
又即位以来，十有馀年，圣嗣未立，群下继望。
可令中宫博简嫔媵，兼采微贱宜子之人，进御至尊，顺助天意。
若有皇子，母自乳养，无委保妾医巫，以致飞燕之祸。
明将军望尊位显，当以天下为忧，崇尚谦省，垂则万方。
而新营祠堂，费功亿计，非以昭明令德，崇示清俭。
自数年以来，灾怪屡见，比无雨润，而沉阴郁泱。
宫省之内，容有阴谋。
translation: 
The chief minister Huang Shang and others asked the general Liang Shang, and the servant Huang Qiong investigated Li Gu's case. It took a long time before he was appointed as Yilang.
Li Gu went out to become the magistrate of Luo County in Guanghan. When he arrived at Baishui Pass, he removed his seal and ribbon, returned to Hanzhong, and closed his door to avoid interacting with others.
For half a year, Liang Shang asked Li Guzuo to work as a lieutenant.
Liang Shang assisted the government as his father, but he was meek and defensive, unable to rectify the situation. Disasters occurred many times, and the power below him became increasingly powerful. Li Gu wanted to ask Liang Shang to rectify his morals first and resign from his position as Gao Man, so he wrote a memorial to Liang Shang: "Spring and Autumn" praises Yi father to open up the path of righteousness, and blames Wu Hao to close the door of benefit. When the way of righteousness is closed, the door of profit is opened; when the door of profit is opened, the way of righteousness is blocked.
The former Emperor Xiao'an appointed Borong, Fan Feng and others internally, and Zhou Guang, Xie Yun and others were appointed externally. They accepted bribes and hired people improperly. There was a lot of discussion in the world and the voice of resentment was everywhere.
When the imperial court was first established, it was relatively quiet. Within a few years, it gradually deteriorated.
As the party advances, people are promoted every day, and those who stick to the good path are at the end of their rope, without any way to correct their shortcomings and establish righteousness.
After taking the throne for more than ten years, the crown prince has not yet been established, and everyone is looking forward to it.
The number of concubines in the palace can be reduced, and people of low status but suitable for having children can be selected to join the emperor and help God's will.
If there is a prince, the mother should breastfeed the baby herself, and should not leave it to the witch doctor who protects the concubine, which may lead to the disaster of murdering her son like Zhao Feiyan.
The generals of the Ming Dynasty have high prestige and status. They should worry about world affairs, advocate modesty and frugality, and set an example for everyone.
However, building a new ancestral hall requires hundreds of millions of labor and is not to show virtue or frugality.
Over the past few years, disasters have appeared many times, and it has not rained for many consecutive years, but it has been gloomy and cloudy.
There must be a conspiracy within the palace.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
孔子曰 智者见变思刑，愚者睹怪讳名 天道无亲，可为祗畏。
加近者月食既于端门之侧。
月者，大臣之体也。夫穷高侧危，大满则溢，月盈则缺，日中则移。
凡此四者，自然之数也。
天地之心，福谦忌盛，是以贤达功遂身退，全名养寿，无有怵迫之忧。
诚令王纲一整，道行忠立，明公踵伯成之高，全不朽之誉，岂与此外戚凡辈耽荣好位者同日而论哉。
固狂夫下愚，不达大体，窃感古人一饭之报，况受顾遇而容不尽乎。
商不能用。
永和中，荆州盗贼起，弥年不定，乃以固为荆州刺史。
固到，遣吏劳问境内，赦寇盗前衅，与之更始。
于是贼帅夏密等敛其魁党六百馀人，自缚归首。
固皆原之，遣还，使自相招集，开示威法。
半岁间，馀类悉降，州内清平。
上奏南阳太守高赐等臧秽。
赐等惧罪，遂共重赂大将军梁冀，冀为千里移檄，而固持之愈急。
冀遂令徙固为太山太守。
translation: 
Confucius said: A wise man thinks of punishment when he sees a change, but a fool hides his name when he sees something strange. There is no distinction between closeness and distance in the way of heaven, which can be respected.
The recent lunar eclipse has been on the side of Duanmen. Moon, the symbol of the minister.
Generally speaking, if it is too high, it will be dangerous; if it is too full, it will overflow; if the moon is full, it will be short; and if the sun is at noon, it will shift.
These four items are natural numbers.
In the heart of heaven and earth, blessings should be modest and should not be prosperous. Therefore, virtuous people will retire after success, preserve their reputation, and live their lives well, without fear or worry.
If Wang Gang is kept intact, his conduct is loyal, Ming Gong follows the path of Bo Gao, and his immortal reputation is preserved, is it the same as these mediocre relatives who enjoy a good position?
I am a foolish person who is ignorant of the general situation. I secretly feel that the ancients repaid a favor with a meal. How much more can I not do my best to receive care and preferential treatment?
Liang Shang did not listen.
During the Yonghe period, bandits arose in Jingzhou and could not be pacified for many years, so the imperial court appointed Li Gu as the governor of Jingzhou.
After Li Gu took office, he sent officials to visit the territory to express condolences, pardon the bandits' previous crimes, and start over with them.
So the bandit leader Xia Mi and others recruited more than 600 of their gang members, tied themselves up, and came to surrender.
Li Gudu forgave them and asked them to go back, so that they could gather among themselves and start a demonstration.
Within half a year, all the thieves surrendered, and the state was at peace ever since.
Li Gu reported to Nanyang Governor Gao Ci and others about their corrupt behavior.
Gao Ci and others were afraid of being punished, so they jointly bribed the general Liang Ji with a large sum of money. Liang Ji sent the message thousands of miles for them, but Li Gu held on tighter.
Liang Ji then ordered Li Gu to be appointed as the prefect of Taishan.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
时，太山盗贼屯聚历年，郡兵常千人，追讨不能制。
固到，悉罢遣归农，但选留任战者百馀人，以恩信招诱之。
未满岁，贼皆弭散。
迁将作大匠。
上疏陈事曰：臣闻气之清者为神，人之清者为贤。
养身者以练神为宝，安国者以积贤为道。
昔秦欲谋楚，王孙圉设坛西门，陈列名臣，秦使戄然，遂为寝兵。
魏文侯师卜子夏，友田子方，轼段干木，故群俊竞至，名过齐桓，秦人不敢窥兵于西河，斯盖积贤人之符也。
陛下拨乱龙飞，初登大位，聘南阳樊英、江夏黄琼、广汉杨厚、会稽贺纯，策书嗟叹，待以大夫之位。
是以岩穴幽人，智术之士，弹冠振衣，乐欲为用，四海欣然，归服圣德。
厚等在职，虽无奇卓，然夕惕孽孽，志在忧国。
臣前在荆州，闻厚、纯等以病免归，诚以怅然，为时惜之。
translation: 
At this time, the bandits in Taishan had been gathering for many years. There were often thousands of soldiers in the county, and they could not be suppressed by pursuit.
After Li Gu took office, he dismissed all the county soldiers and went back to farm. He only selected more than a hundred people with fighting ability to stay and used their kindness to lure the thieves to surrender.
Within a year, the thieves had all fled.
Li Gu was promoted to a general and a master craftsman.
Shangshu Chenshi said: I have heard that those with pure Qi are called gods, and those with pure Qi are called virtuous.
The most valuable thing for cultivating one's body is cultivating one's spirit, and the right way for governing a country is to accumulate virtues.
In ancient times, the Qin State wanted to attack the Chu State. Wang Sunyu set up an altar at the west gate and displayed the names of famous ministers. The Qin envoy was surprised and stopped the attack.
Wei Wenhou regarded Bu Zixia as his teacher and Tian Zifang as his friend, and paid tribute to Duan Qianmu. Therefore, all the wise men rushed to come, and their reputation exceeded that of Duke Huan of Qi. Qin did not dare to send troops to Xihe. This was probably the fate of Ji Xian.
His Majesty set things right and ascended the throne for the first time. He invited Fan Ying from Nanyang, Huang Qiong from Jiangxia, Yang Hou from Guanghan, and He Chun from Kuaiji. He praised them in policy letters and received them as officials.
Therefore, those who live in seclusion and those who are wise and skillful will celebrate each other with their hats and clothes, and will be willing to do their best for you. People all over the world will be happy and submit to the Holy Virtue.
Although Yang Hou and others had no extraordinary performance when they were in office, they worked diligently to worry about state affairs every day.
I was in Jingzhou some time ago and heard that Yang Hou, He Chun and others were dismissed from their posts due to illness and returned to their fields. I felt very sorry for them.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
一日朝会，见诸侍中并皆年少，无一宿儒大人可顾问者，诚可叹息。
宜征还厚等，以副群望。
琼久处议郎，已且十年，众人皆怪始隆崇，今更滞也。
光禄大夫周举，才谟高正，宜在常伯，访以言议。
侍中杜乔，学深行直，当世良臣，久托疾病，可敕令起。
又荐陈留杨伦、河南尹存、东平王恽、陈国何临、清河房植等。
是日有诏征用伦、厚等，而迁琼、举，以固为大司农。
先是，周举等八使案察天下，多所劾奏，其中并是宦者亲属，辄为请乞，诏遂令勿考。
又旧任三府选令史，光禄试尚书郎，时皆特拜，不复选试。
固乃与廷尉吴雄上疏，以为八使所纠，宜急诛罚，选举署置，可归有司。
帝感其言，乃更下免八使所举刺史、二千石，自是稀复特拜，切责三公，明加考察，朝廷称善。
乃复与光禄勋刘宣上言 自顷选举牧守，多非其人，至行无道，侵害百姓。
又宜止槃游，专心庶政 帝纳其言，于是下诏诸州劾奏守令以下，政有乖枉，遇人无惠者，免所居官。其奸秽重罪，收付诏狱。
translation: 
One day at the court meeting, I saw that all the servants were young people, and there was no one who could serve as an advisor. It was indeed a pity.
Yang Hou and others should be recalled to meet everyone's expectations.
Huang Qiong has been a courtier for a long time, nearly ten years. Everyone felt that they started to attach great importance to him, but now they have stagnated, which is strange.
Zhou Ju, the Guanglu doctor, was a man of great talent and righteousness. He should be in the position of Chang Bo and visit and discuss matters.
Attendant Du Qiao is a good scholar and a good minister of the world. He has been ill for a long time and can be ordered to stand up and take care of things.
Li Gu also recommended Chen Liu Yang Lun, Henan Yin Cun, Dongping Wang Yun, Chen Guo He Lin, Qinghe Fangzhi and others.
On this day, there was an edict calling on Yang Lun, Yang Hou, etc., Huang Qiong and Zhou Ju were promoted, and Li Gu was appointed as the chief agricultural officer.
At first Zhou Ju and other eight envoys investigated the cases of the world and impeached many unjust officials, most of whom were relatives of the eunuchs. The eunuchs often interceded on their behalf, and the edicts told them not to pursue them.
In addition, he was appointed as the magistrate of the three prefectures in the past, and Guanglu took the imperial examination. At this time, they were all special officials, and there was no longer any election.
Li Gu then communicated with Tingwei Wu Xiong, believing that the people reported by the eight envoys should be punished as soon as possible, and the election and administration should be left to the responsible department.
The emperor was moved by their words, so he exempted the governor and two thousand stones from the eight envoys. From then on, he reduced the number of special missions and tasked the three princes to conduct inspections. The court praised him very much.
Li Gu also spoke to Guang Luxun and Liu Xuan: "In recent elections of pastoral guards, most of them are incompetent and even act unethically and infringe on the rights and interests of the people."
Also, Your Majesty, you should stop having fun and play, and concentrate on your government. The emperor adopted their opinions and issued an edict to the various states to impeach officials below the prefect and county magistrate. Those who behaved improperly and were not good for the people should be removed from their official positions; those who committed treachery and serious crimes were sent to prison.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
及冲帝即位，以固为太尉，与梁冀参录尚书事。
明年帝崩，梁太后以杨、徐盗贼盛强，恐惊扰致乱，使中常侍诏固等，欲须所征诸王侯到乃发丧。
固对曰 帝虽幼少，犹天下之父。
今日崩亡，人神感动，岂有臣子反共掩匿乎。
昔秦皇亡于沙丘，胡亥、赵高隐而不发，卒害扶苏，以至亡国。
近北乡侯薨，阎后兄弟及江京等亦共掩秘，遂有孙程手刃之事。
此天下大忌，不可之甚者也 太后从之，即暮发丧。
固以清河王蒜年长有德，欲立之，谓梁冀曰 今当立帝，宜择长年高明有德，任亲政事者，愿将军审详大计，察周、霍之立文、宣，戒邓、阎之利幼弱 冀不从，乃立乐安王子缵，年八岁，是为质帝。
时，冲帝将北卜山陵。固乃议曰 今处处寇贼，军兴用费加倍，新创宪陵，贼发非一。
帝尚幼小，可起陵于宪陵茔内，依康陵制度，其于役费三分减一 乃从固议。
时太后以比遭不造，委任宰辅，固所匡正，每辄从用，其黄门宦者一皆斥遣，天下咸望遂平，而梁冀猜专，每相忌疾。
初，顺帝时诸所除官，多不以次，及固在事，奏免百馀人。
此等既怨，又希望冀旨，遂共作飞章虚诬固罪曰：臣闻君不稽古，无以承天。臣不述旧，无以奉君。
昔尧殂之后，舜仰慕三年，坐则见尧于墙，食则睹尧于羹。
translation: 
Later, Emperor Chong came to the throne and appointed Li Gu as the Taiwei, who participated in the affairs of the Shangshu with Liang Ji.
The emperor died the next year. The Empress Dowager Liang thought that the thieves in Yangzhou and Xuzhou were strong and she was afraid of causing chaos. She sent an imperial edict to Li Gu and others, hoping to wait until all the princes and princes summoned arrived before mourning.
Li Gu replied: Although the emperor is young, he is still the father of the world.
Today's collapse, people and gods are moved, how can any ministers rebel against the Communist Party and hide it?
In ancient times, the First Emperor of Qin died in a sand dune. Hu Hai and Zhao Gao concealed his death and did not announce the mourning. They killed Fusu and even destroyed the country.
Recently, the Marquis of Beixiang died, and the Yan brothers, Jiang Jing and others also concealed the secret, so Sun Cheng committed murder.
This is a taboo in the world and must not be done. The Queen Mother obeyed and held mourning that night.
Li Gu believed that Liu Suan, the king of Qinghe, was old and virtuous, and wanted to make him the emperor. He said to Liang Ji: To establish an emperor today, we should choose someone who is old and virtuous, and who is responsible for personal affairs. He hopes that the general will carefully review the plan and learn from Zhou Bo's approach to establishing Emperor Wen and Huo Guang's approach to establishing Emperor Xuan, instead of taking advantage of the weak monarchs like Empress Dowager Deng and Empress Dowager Yan. Liang Ji refused to listen, so he appointed Liu Zuan, the son of King Le'an, who was just eight years old, as Emperor Zhi.
At this time, Emperor Chong took the Beibu Mountain Mausoleum as the burial site, and Li Gu suggested: Today there are bandits everywhere, so the military expenses will be doubled.
If the emperor is still young, his tomb can be built in the Kuanling Tomb. According to the Kangling system of Emperor Shang, the cost can be reduced by one-third.
So he followed Li Gu's advice. At this time, the Empress Dowager appointed prime ministers because of her repeated misfortunes. Li Gu's corrective opinions were obeyed every time, and those Huangmen eunuchs were all dismissed. The world hoped for peace, but Liang Ji guessed and hated each other.
At first, many of the officials appointed during Emperor Shun's reign were not in order. When Li Gu was in charge, he dismissed more than a hundred people.
This group of people were both resentful and wanted Liang Ji's help, so they jointly wrote an urgent memorial to slander Li Gu. The memorial said: "I heard that the king does not act according to heaven, so I cannot accept the destiny of heaven; I do not tell the past, and I cannot serve the king."
In ancient times, after Yao's death, Shun admired him for three years. When he sat down, he saw Yao by the wall, and when he was eating, he saw Yao beside the soup.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
斯所谓聿追来孝，不失臣子之节者。
太尉李固，因公假私，依正行邪，离间近戚，自隆支党。
至于表举荐达，例皆门徒，及所辟召，靡非先旧。
或富室财赂，或子婿婚属，其列在官牒者凡四十九人。
又广选贾竖，以补令史。募求好马，临窗呈试。
出入逾侈，辎軿曜日。
大行在殡，路人掩涕，固独胡粉饰貌，搔头弄姿，槃旋偃仰，从容冶步，曾无惨怛伤悴之心。
山陵未成，违矫旧政，善则称已，过则归君，斥逐近臣，不得侍送，作威作福，莫固之甚。
臣闻台辅之位，实和阴阳，璇机不平，寇贼奸轨，则责在太尉。
固受任之后，东南跋扈，两州数郡，千里萧条，兆人伤损，大化陵迟，而诋疵先主，苟肆狂狷。
存无廷争之忠，没有诽谤之说。
夫子罪莫大于累父，臣恶莫深于毁君。
固之过衅，事合诛辟。
书奏，冀以白太后，使下其事。
太后不听，得免。
冀忌帝聪慧，恐为后患，遂令左右进鸠。
translation: 
This is what is called always pursuing filial piety without losing the integrity of a minister.
Lieutenant Li Gu, for official duties and private interests, acted evil in accordance with the good, alienated close relatives, and established his own branch.
As for the commendations he expressed, they were all his disciples as usual; all the people he appointed were old friends.
Some were bribed with property, and some were his sons-in-law's marriage relatives. There were a total of forty-nine people listed on the official ultimatum.
He also widely selected Jia Shu's disciples to supplement the history of the order; he also recruited good horses and presented them to the test at the window.
His travels are excessively extravagant, and the curtains on his carriages are bright and sunny.
The emperor was in funeral procession, and passers-by were crying, but Li Gu dressed up his appearance, scratched his head and made poses, played freely, and walked calmly, without even the slightest trace of sadness or sadness.
Before the emperor's mausoleum was built, he went against the old rules, took credit for all the good things, blamed all the faults on the king, expelled the old ministers, was not allowed to serve, and acted arrogantly. No one was more powerful than Li Gu.
I heard that the prime minister's job is to regulate yin and yang. If Xuanji is unjust and bandits cause trouble, the responsibility lies with the Taiwei.
After Li Gu took office, thieves were rampant in the southeastern region. Jiujiang and Guangling prefectures and several counties were in depression. Thousands of people were injured, and the great restoration of Ling was delayed. He slandered the former lord and went crazy.
There is no loyalty and no slander.
The crime of a son is no greater than that of burdening his father, and the crime of a minister is no deeper than that of ruining the king.
Li Gu's crime should be beheaded.
After the letter was submitted, Liang Ji told the Queen Mother, please submit it to the people below for trial.
The queen mother refused to listen and was spared from death.
Liang Ji feared that the emperor's intelligence would cause future troubles, so he ordered people to poison him.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
帝苦烦甚，促使召固。
固入，前问 陛下得患所由 帝尚能言，曰 食煮饼，今腹中闷，得水尚可活 时冀亦在侧，曰 恐吐，不可饮水 语未绝而崩。
固伏尸号哭，推举侍医。
冀虑其事泄，大恶之。
因议立嗣，固引司徒胡广、司空赵戒，先与冀书曰：天下不幸，仍遭大忧。
皇太后圣德当朝，摄统万机，明将军体履忠孝，忧存社稷，而频年之间，国祚三绝。
今当立帝，天下重器，诚知太后垂心，将军劳虑，详择其人，务存圣明。
然愚情眷眷，窃独有怀。
远寻先世废立旧仪，近见国家践祚前事，未尝不询访公卿，广求群议，令上应天心，下合众望。
且永初以来，政事多谬，地震宫庙，彗星竟天，诚是将军用情之日 传曰 以天下与人易，为天下得人难 昔昌邑之立，昏乱日滋，霍光忧愧发愤，悔之折骨。
自非博陆忠勇，延年奋发，大汉之祀，几将倾矣。
至忧至重，可不熟虑。
悠悠万事，唯此为大，国之兴衰，在此一举。
translation: 
The emperor was distressed and depressed, so he sent someone to find Li Gu.
Li Gu went in, stepped forward and asked: How did your majesty get sick? The emperor was still able to speak and said: I ate boiled cakes and now I feel very stuffy in my stomach. I can still survive if I can find some water. Liang Ji was also there at the time and said: "I'm afraid I might vomit, so I can't drink water." He died before he finished speaking.
Li Gu lay down on the corpse and cried, and recommended him to serve as a doctor.
Liang Ji was worried that the matter would be leaked, and hated him especially.
So they discussed the establishment of an heir. Li Gu introduced Situ Hu Guang and Sikong Zhao Jie, and first wrote to Liang Ji: The world is unfortunate and still suffers from great worries.
The empress dowager was in power, the prime minister was full of opportunities, and the generals of the Ming Dynasty followed the principles of loyalty and filial piety and considered the safety of the country. However, in the past few years, the country was cut off three times.
Today is the time to establish an emperor. The throne is a valuable weapon in the world. The Queen Mother is very concerned about it. The general is careful to choose the right person and keep the sage.
However, Wu Qing thought twice and had his own thoughts in private.
Looking far away to see the old system that was abolished by our ancestors, and looking at the past events of the country's establishment of an emperor, we have never failed to visit the ministers and solicit opinions extensively. We must comply with the will of heaven and the wishes of everyone below.
Besides, since the Yongchu period, there have been many fallacies in political affairs, earthquakes in palaces and temples, and comets appearing in the sky. It is indeed the time for the general to put his mind to work. "Ancient Book" says: It is easy for the world to deal with people, but it is difficult for the world to win people. Once upon a time, when the king of Changyi was appointed, he was in a state of confusion. Huo Guang was so worried that he broke his bones with regret.
If it weren't for the loyalty and bravery of Huo Guang, the Marquis of Bolu, and the hard work of Da Si Farming Yannian, the country of the Han Dynasty would have almost collapsed.
It can be seen that the matter is of great importance and must be carefully considered!
Of all things, this is the biggest thing. The rise and fall of a country depends on this.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
冀得书，乃召三公、中二千石、列侯大议所立。
固、广、戒及大鸿胪杜乔皆以为清河王蒜明德著闻，又属最尊亲，宜立为嗣。
先是蠡吾侯志当取冀妹，时在京师，冀欲立之。
众论既异，愤愤不得意，而未有以相夺，中常侍曹腾等闻而夜往说冀曰 将军累世有椒房之亲，秉摄万机，宾客纵横，多有过差。
清河王严明，若果立，则将军受祸不久矣。
不如立蠡吾侯，富贵可长保也 冀然其言，明日重会公卿，冀意气凶凶，而言辞激切。
自胡广、赵戒以下，莫不慑惮之。
皆曰 惟大将军令 而固独与杜乔坚守本议。
冀厉声曰 罢会 固意既不从，犹望众心可立，复以书劝冀。
冀愈激怒，乃说太后先策免固，竟立蠡吾侯，是为桓帝。
后岁馀，甘陵刘文、魏郡刘鲔各谋立蒜为天子，梁冀因此诬固与文、鲔共为妖言，下狱。
门生勃海王调贯械上书，证固之枉，河内赵承等数十人亦要鈇锧诣阙通诉，太后明之，乃赦焉。
translation: 
After Liang Ji got the letter, he summoned the three princes, Zhong Erqian Shi, and other princes to discuss who should be chosen.
Li Gu, Hu Guang, Zhao Jie and Dahonglu Du Qiao all believed that Liu Lian, the king of Qinghe, was well-educated and respected the most relatives, so he should be established as his heir.
First, Liwu Hou Liu Zhidang married Liang Ji's sister. At this time, he was in the capital, and Liang Ji wanted to marry him.
Everyone disagreed, and Liang Ji was angry, but there was no other reason to change everyone's mind. After hearing this, Cao Teng and others went to Liang Ji in the evening to persuade him: "The generals have been related to the queen for several generations and have great power. The guests behaved wildly and made many mistakes."
King Qinghe is a very strict man. If he is established as king, the general will not suffer disaster soon.
It is better to establish Li Wuhou, and the wealth and honor can be maintained for a long time. Liang Ji agreed with them. When he met with the ministers again the next day, Liang Ji was in high spirits and spoke excitedly.
There are no officials from Hu Guang and Zhao Jie who are not afraid.
They all say: Only the general gives orders. But Li Gu and Du Qiao still insisted on their original opinions.
Liang Ji loudly announced the strike. Li Gu's opinion was not listened to, but he still hoped that everyone would be convinced, and wrote to Liang Ji again.
Liang Ji became even more angry, so he persuaded the Queen Mother to remove Li Gu from his position first, and instead appointed Li Wuhou, who became Emperor Huan.
More than a year later, Liu Wen of Ganling and Liu Kun of Wei County each planned to make Liu Lian the emperor. Liang Ji therefore falsely accused Li Gu, Liu Wen, Liu Kun and others of spreading rumors and imprisoned them.
Li Gu's disciple Bohai Wang Tiao Guanzhi wrote a letter to prove Li Gu's injustice. Dozens of people including Zhao Cheng in Hanoi also asked the husband to go to the court to complain. The Queen Mother understood their intentions and pardoned the crime.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
及出狱，京师市里皆称万岁。
冀闻之大惊，畏固名德终为己害，乃更据奏前事，遂诛之，时年五十四。
临命，与胡广、赵戒书曰 固受国厚恩，是以竭其股肱，不顾死亡，志欲扶持王室，比隆文、宣。
何图一朝梁氏迷谬，公等曲从，以吉为凶，成事为败乎。
汉家衰微，从此始矣。
公等受主厚禄，颠而不扶，倾覆大事，后之良史，岂有所私。
固身已矣，于义得矣，夫复何言 广、戒得书悲惭，皆长叹流涕。
州郡收固二子基、兹子郾城，皆死狱中。
小子燮得脱亡命。
冀乃封广、戒而露固尸于四衢，令有敢临者加其罪。
固弟子汝南郭亮，年始成童，游学洛阳，乃左提章钺，右秉鈇锧，诣阙上书，乞收固尸。
不许，因往临哭，陈辞于前，遂守丧不去。
夏门亭长呵之曰 李、杜二公为大臣，不能安上纳忠，而兴造无端。
卿曹何等腐生，公犯诏书。
translation: 
When he was released from prison, the people in the capital city shouted long live.
Liang Ji was shocked when he heard this. He was afraid that Li Gu's reputation and morality would be harmful to him in the future, so he repeated what he had done before and killed Li Gu. He was only fifty-four years old at the time.
Before his death, Li Gu wrote to Hu Guang and Zhao Jie: I have received great favor from the country, so I try my best to support the royal family regardless of personal death, and achieve the level of Emperor Wen and Emperor Xuan.
Who would have thought that once Liang was confused, you would just follow suit and turn good things into bad things, and success into failure?
The decline of the Han Dynasty began from then on.
You have received generous rewards from the Lord, but you subvert rather than support, and overturn national affairs. Will the good history of future generations tolerate your selfishness?
My body is gone, but I still gain something in terms of righteousness, so what else can I say? Hu Guang and Zhao Jie felt sad and ashamed after receiving the letter, and they both sighed and shed tears.
The prefecture and county arrested Li Gu's two sons, Li Ji and Lizi, and both died in prison.
The youngest son Li Xie escaped with his life.
Liang Ji sealed the official positions of Hu Guang and Zhao Jie, exposed Li Gu's body on a traffic thoroughfare, and ordered that those who dared to approach would be punished with additional penalties.
Li Gu's disciple Runan Guo Liang, who had just grown up and studied in Luoyang, went to the court with a memorial ax and ax in his left hand and a husband's pledge in his right hand, requesting that Gu's body be collected.
He was not allowed to do so, so he went to cry and made his speeches in front of him, then stayed in mourning and refused to leave.
The head of the Xiamen Pavilion scolded him and said: Li and Du are ministers. They cannot appease the emperor and accept loyal advice, but cause unwarranted disasters.
How pedantic are you, blatantly violating the edict, how can you be punished for doing so?


Chunk 13: 
original: 
干试有司乎 亮曰 亮含阴阳以生，戴乾履坤。
耳目适宜视听，口不可以妄言也 太后闻而不诛。
南阳人董班亦往哭固，而殉尸不肯去。
太后怜之，乃听得襚敛归葬。
邵遂废锢终身。
燮在职二年卒，时人感其世忠正，咸伤惜焉。
杜乔字叔荣，河内林虑人也。
少为诸生，举孝廉，辟司徒杨震府。
稍迁为南郡太守，转东海相，入拜侍中。
汉安元年，以乔守光禄大夫，使徇察兖州。
表奏太山太守李固政为天下第一。陈留太守梁让、济阴太守汜宫、济北相崔瑗等臧罪千万以上。
让即大将军梁冀季父，宫、瑗皆冀所善。
还，拜太子太傅，迁大司农。
translation: 
Guo Liang said: I was born with yin and yang, wearing the sky and stepping on the ground.
Motivated by righteousness, do you know that your life is important, how can you threaten people with death? The head of the pavilion sighed and said: "We are born in a world that is not destined. No matter how high the sky is, we dare not not bend down, no matter how thick the earth is, we dare not not be tired. We should pay attention to our ears and eyes, and we should not talk nonsense."
The Queen Mother did not kill him after hearing this. Dong Ban, a native of Nanyang, also went to mourn Li Gu, but the corpse refused to leave.
The Queen Mother sympathized with him and asked him to wrap his body in cloth and bury him.
From then on, the two became famous, and the three princes recruited him.
Dong Ban then disappeared and disappeared. Li Gu wrote a total of eleven articles including chapters, tables, memorials, discussions, teachings, countermeasures, notes and inscriptions. Disciple Zhao Cheng and others could not stop lamenting, so they discussed Li Gu's remarks and deeds and wrote an article "Virtue".
◆The biography of Du Qiao, named Shu Rong, was born in Linli, Hanoi.
When he was young, he was a Zhusheng and was conscripted into Situ Yang Zhen's mansion.
Gradually he was promoted to the prefect of Nanjun, transferred to the prime minister of the East China Sea, and became a servant in the imperial court.
In the first year of Han'an, Du Qiao acted for Dr. Guanglu and sent him to inspect Yanzhou.
The above table reports that Li Gu, the prefect of Taishan, has the best political performance in the world; Liang Rang, the prefect of Chenliu, Si Gong, the prefect of Jiyin, and Cui Yuan, the prefect of Jibei, etc. embezzled more than ten million.
Liang Rang is the uncle of General Liang Ji, and Bangong and Cui Yuan are Liang Ji's cronies.
Returning to Beijing, he was awarded the title of Crown Prince and Tutor, and was promoted to Minister of Agriculture.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
时，梁冀子弟五人及中常侍等以无功并封，乔上书谏曰 陛下越从藩臣，龙飞即位，天人瞩心，万邦攸赖。
不急忠贤之礼，而先左右之封，伤善害德，兴长佞谀。
臣闻古之明君，褒罚必以功过。末世暗主，诛赏各缘其私。
今梁氏一门，宦者微孽，并带无功之绂，裂劳臣之土，其为乖滥，胡可胜言。
夫有功不赏，为善失其望。奸回不诘，为恶肆其凶。
故陈资斧而人靡畏，班爵位而物无劝。
苟遂斯道，岂伊伤政，为乱而已，丧身亡国，可不慎哉 书奏不省。
益州刺史种暠举劾永昌太守刘君世以金蛇遗梁冀，事发觉，以蛇输司农。
冀从乔借观之，乔不肯与，冀始为恨。
累迁大鸿胪。
时，冀小女死，令公卿会丧，乔独不往，冀又衔之。
迁光禄勋。
建和元年，代胡广为太尉。
translation: 
At this time, the five descendants of Liang Ji and the ministers of Zhongchang had no merit and were granted the title. Du Qiao wrote a letter to remonstrate: The emperor comes from the vassals, Long Fei ascends the throne, heaven and man return, and all nations rely on them.
However, instead of appointing loyal and virtuous people, they first appoint the left and right confidants. This harms good people, is harmful to virtue, and encourages the trend of flattery.
I heard that in ancient times, wise kings were rewarded for their merits and punished for their faults; the declining kings were dim and incompetent, and rewards and punishments were all based on selfish motives.
Nowadays, the Liang family, the eunuchs and evil sons, all wear seals and ribbons with no merit, and the fiefdoms for their hard work and merit are given to them. How can we fully explain the perverseness and disorder of this practice.
Merits are not rewarded, and good deeds are not rewarded as they should be; no one cares about treacherous people, allowing them to do evil and cause disaster.
Therefore, people are not afraid of the murderous butcher's knife placed in front of them, and conferring titles and titles will not serve as a reward.
If this continues for a long time, is it just harmful to political integrity? It is enough to cause chaos and ruin the country. It is worthy of vigilance! Please play, your Majesty does not need it.
Yizhou governor Zhongfan impeached Yongchang prefect Liu Junshi and sent a golden snake to Liang Ji. When the incident was discovered, he sent the golden snake to Sinong.
Liang Ji asked Du Qiao to borrow it for a look, but Du Qiao refused, and Liang Ji began to hold a grudge.
Du Qiao was promoted to Dahonglu.
At this time, Liang Ji's daughter died, and all the officials went to attend the funeral. Du Qiao could not go alone, and Liang Ji hated him even more.
Du Qiao was promoted to Guang Luxun.
In the first year of Jianhe, Hu Guang was appointed Taiwei on his behalf.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
桓帝将纳梁冀未，冀欲令以厚礼迎之，乔据执旧典，不听。
又冀属乔举汜宫为尚书，乔以宫臧罪明著，遂不肯用，因此日忏于冀。
先是李固见废，内外丧气，群臣侧足而立，唯乔正色无所回桡。
由是海内叹息，朝野瞻望焉。
在位数月，以地震免。
宦者唐衡、左悺等因共谮于帝曰 陛下前当即位，乔与李固抗议言上不堪奉汉宗祀 帝亦怨之。
及清河王蒜事起，梁冀遂讽有司劾乔及李固与刘鲔等交通，请逮案罪。
而梁太后素知乔忠，但策免而已。
冀愈怒，使人胁乔曰 早从宜，妻子可得全 乔不肯。
明日冀遣骑至其门，不闻哭者，遂白执系之，死狱中。
妻、子归故郡。
与李固俱暴尸于城北，家属故人莫敢视者。
乔故掾陈留杨匡闻之，号泣星行到洛阳，乃著故赤帻，托为夏门亭吏，守卫尸丧，驱护蝇虫，积十二日，都官从事执之以闻。
梁太后义而不罪。
匡于是带鈇锧诣阙上书，并乞李、杜二公骸骨。
太后许之。
成礼殡殓，送乔丧还家，葬送行服，隐匿不仕。
匡初好学，常在外黄大泽教授门徒。
补蕲长，政有异绩，迁平原令。
时国相徐曾，中常侍璜之兄也，匡耻与接事，托疾牧豕云。
translation: 
Emperor Huan planned to accept Liang Ji's sister as his queen. Liang Ji wanted to welcome his sister with generous gifts, but Du Qiao refused to listen to him according to the old regulations.
Liang Ji asked Du Qiao to appoint Si Gong as minister. Du Qiao believed that Si Gong was guilty of embezzlement and refused to use it. This greatly contradicted Liang Ji's wishes.
First, Li Gu was deposed, and everyone inside and outside the court was dejected. All the ministers were afraid and trembling. Only Du Qiao was serious and did not dare to offend.
Therefore, the whole country sighed for him, and both the government and the public looked at him and worried about him.
After a few months in office, he was dismissed from office due to an earthquake.
Eunuchs Tang Heng, Zuo and others jointly framed Du Qiao in front of Emperor Huan, saying: When the emperor ascended the throne, Du Qiao and Li Gu objected, saying that the emperor was not worthy of enshrining the ancestral temple of the Han Dynasty and inheriting the throne.
Emperor Huan also hated him. After the Qinghe King incident occurred, Liang Ji suggested that the supervisor should impeach Du Qiao and Li Gu for colluding with Liu Tuna, and ask for their arrest and prosecution.
The Empress Dowager Liang always knew that Du Qiao was loyal, so she only dismissed him from office.
Liang Ji became even more angry and sent someone to threaten Du Qiao, saying: "If you commit suicide early, your wife will be saved." Duccio refused.
The next day Liang Ji sent cavalry to his house, but when he heard no cries, he arrested him and died in prison.
The wife went back to her hometown.
The bodies of Du Qiao and Li Gu were exposed in the north of the city, and their families and friends did not dare to look at them.
Du Qiao's old subordinate Chen Liu and Yang Kuang heard about it and rushed to Luoyang wailing at night. Wearing his original red turban, he pretended to be a Xiamen Pavilion official, guarding the corpse and driving away flies and mosquitoes for a total of twelve days. The governor captured him and reported to the court.
Empress Dowager Liang believed that people with loyalty should not care about their sins.
Yang Kuang then took Tie to the court to submit a letter and requested that the bodies of Li Gu and Du Qiao be collected.
The Queen Mother agreed to his request.
The funeral was carried out with ceremonial etiquette, and Du Qiao was sent home for his funeral. After the funeral, he lived in seclusion and did not serve as an official.
Yang Kuang was originally eager to learn and once taught students in Huang Daze.
He was appointed chief of Qi, had outstanding political achievements, and was promoted to Pingyuan Order.
At this time, Xu Zeng, the Prime Minister of the State, was the elder brother of Xu Huang, the imperial minister. Yang Kuang thought it was shameful to work with him, so he pretended to be ill and went home to herd pigs.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
论曰：夫称仁人者，其道弘矣。
立言践行，岂徒徇名安己而已哉，将以定去就之概，正天下之风，使生以理全，死与义合也。
夫专为义则伤生，专为生则骞义，专为物则害智，专为己则损仁。若义重于生，舍生可也。生重于义，全生可也。
上以残暗失君道，下以笃固尽臣节。
臣节尽而死之，则为杀身以成仁，去之不为求生以害仁也。
顺、桓之间，国统三绝，太后称制，贼臣虎视。
李固据位持重，以争大义，确乎而不可夺。
岂不知守节之触祸，耻夫覆折之伤任也。
观其发正辞，及所遗梁冀书，虽机失谋乖，犹恋恋而不能已。
至矣哉，社稷之心乎。其顾视胡广、赵戒，犹粪土也。
translation: 
The historian commented: Ah, a person who praises benevolence and righteousness has many aspects of his life.
What you say means being able to practice it.
Is it just like ordinary people, just seeking fame and self-satisfaction? His words show the importance of going and settling, which can rectify the world's atmosphere, make life in line with reason, and death in its proper place and in line with righteousness. If one is dedicated to righteousness, the result will be a mean life; if one is dedicated to life, the result will be violation of righteousness; if one is dedicated to things, then one will be blinded by things, which is harmful to wisdom; if one is dedicated to oneself, it will be selfish and detrimental to the fraternity of benevolence. If righteousness is more important than life, you should sacrifice your life for righteousness; if life is more important than righteousness, you can live your whole life.
The monarch above has lost his way as a king due to his cruelty and weakness, and the ministers below should adhere to the duties of a minister.
The minister's death to fulfill his duty is killing himself to fulfill his benevolence, and leaving resolutely cannot be called seeking life to harm his benevolence.
Between Emperor Shun and Emperor Huan, the country's legal system was severed three times. The Queen Mother came to power, and rebellious ministers and traitors were eyeing her.
Li Gu was prudent in the government, fought for justice, and was unshakable.
Doesn’t he know that observing the law will lead to trouble? It is shameful for him to be unable to do what he should do while in office.
Judging from his righteous words and his letter to Liang Ji, although he was ill-advised, he still fell in love with the court and couldn't help himself.
How great! Patriotic heart! Looking back at the likes of Hu Guang and Zhao Jie, they are really worse than shit.


