Chunk 0: 
original: 
王僧孺，字僧孺，东海郯人，魏卫将军肃八世孙。
曾祖雅，晋左光禄大夫、仪同三司。
祖准，宋司徒左长史。
僧孺年五岁，读《孝经》，问授者此书所载述，曰： 论忠孝二事。
僧孺曰： 若尔，常愿读之。
六岁能属文，既长好学。
家贫，常佣书以养母，所写既毕，讽诵亦通。
仕齐，起家王国左常侍、太学博士。
尚书仆射王晏深相赏好。
晏为丹阳尹，召补郡功曹，使僧孺撰《东宫新记》。
迁大司马豫章王行参军，又兼太学博士。
司徒竟陵王子良开西邸招文学，僧孺亦游焉。
文惠太子闻其名，召入东宫，直崇明殿。
欲拟为宫僚，文惠薨，不果。
时王晏子德元出为晋安郡，以僧孺补郡丞，除候官令。
建武初，有诏举士，扬州刺史始安王遥光表荐秘书丞王暕及僧孺曰： 前候官令东海王僧孺，年三十五，理尚栖约，思致悟敏，既笔耕为养，亦佣书成学。
至乃照萤映雪，编蒲缉柳，先言往行，人物雅俗，甘泉遗仪，南宫故事，画地成图，抵掌可述；岂直鼮鼠有必对之辩，竹书无落简之谬，访对不休，质疑斯在。
除尚书仪曹郎，迁治书侍御史，出为钱唐令。
初，僧孺与乐安任昉遇竟陵王西邸，以文学友会，及是将之县，昉赠诗，其略曰： 惟子见知，惟余知子。
观行视言，要终犹始。
敬之重之，如兰如芷。
形应影随，曩行今止。
百行之首，立人斯著。
子之有之，谁毁谁誉。
修名既立，老至何遽。
谁其执鞭，吾为子御。
刘《略》班《艺》，虞《志》荀《录》，伊昔有怀，交相欣勖。
translation: 
Wang Sengru, courtesy name Sengru, was a native of Tan, Donghai, and the eighth-generation grandson of Wang Su, the general of the Wei Dynasty.
His great-grandfather was named Wang Ya, and he served as Dr. Zuo Guanglu and Yi Tong in the Jin Dynasty.
His grandfather's name was Wang Zhun, and he served as Situ Zuo Changshi in the Song Dynasty.
When the monk was five years old and was reading the "Book of Filial Piety", he asked his lecturer what the book contained. The teacher said: "It discusses two things: loyalty and filial piety."
Sengru said: Like this, I am willing to read it often.
I was able to write articles when I was six years old, and I grew up eager to learn.
His family was poor, so he often copied books for others to support his mother. After copying the books, he could recite them smoothly.
He served as an official in the Qi Dynasty and was recruited from his family to serve as the Kingdom's Zuo Changshi and Doctor of Taixue.
Wang Yan, the minister of public affairs, admired him very much.
Wang Yan was appointed Danyang Yin, summoned the meritorious officials of the county, and asked him to compile "New Records of the East Palace".
He was moved to the post of Grand Sima Yuzhang and Wang Xing joined the army, and he also held the post of Doctor of Imperial College.
Prince Liang of Situ Jingling opened his Western residence and attracted people with literary talents, including monks and children.
When Prince Wenhui heard his name, he was summoned to Shu Palace and was on duty in Chongming Palace.
It was planned to make him a vassal of the crown prince, but due to the death of Prince Wenhui, the matter was finally not implemented.
At that time, Wang Yan's son Deyuan served as the governor of Jin'an County. He used monks and children to supplement the county magistrate and granted official orders.
In the early years of the founding of the People's Republic of China, there was an edict to recommend talents. Wang Luoguang, the governor of Shi'an in Dangzhou, recommended the secretary Cheng Xingkui and Jianli. He said: The former Marquis Ling Donghai Wang Sengru was thirty-five years old. He was interested in simplicity and had an intelligent and perceptive mind. He supported himself by writing and copying books for others.
I am very familiar with the words and deeds of the sages of the past, the elegance and customs of the characters, the etiquette practiced in the Ganquan Palace, and the political affairs that took place in the Nangong Palace. Not only could he explain difficult problems like moles so that there were no errors recorded in the bamboo books, but he also constantly answered the emperor's inquiries and asked him for advice when he had difficult questions.
He was awarded the title of Cao Lang, Minister Yi, and was moved to the post of Chief Secretary, Censor, and the Ling of Qian and Tang Dynasties.
At first, Seng Og and Ren Zuo, a member of Bi!'s family, met in Yousu, King Tonglu's house, and they met as literary friends. Now they are going to take up a post in Langlu. Ren Zuo gave him a poem, which said briefly: You have been favored, and I understand you deeply.
I see that your conduct and speech are consistent.
I admire you and respect you, you are like orchid grass and angelica dahurica.
The body and the shadow follow each other, the past walked together and the present separates.
The first of many qualities is the most conspicuous one.
You have all these, no one can blame you.
A good reputation has been established, so it doesn't matter how old you are.
Whoever holds the whip for you, I will drive your chariot.
Liu Xin's "Seven Strategies", Ban Xi's "Yiwenzhi", Lu Chi's "Zhou Shuo", Dong Tan's "Mo Ji", you have learned something in the past, and we appreciate and encourage each other.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
下帷无倦，升高有属。
嘉尔晨灯，惜余夜烛。
其为士友推重如此。
天监初，除临川王后军记室参军，待诏文德省。
寻出为南海太守。
郡常有高凉生口及海舶每岁数至，外国贾人以通货易。旧时州郡以半价就市，又买而即卖，其利数倍，历政以为常。
僧孺乃叹曰： 昔人为蜀部长史，终身无蜀物，吾欲遗子孙者，不在越装。
并无所取。
视事期月，有诏征还，郡民道俗六百人诣阙请留，不许。
既至，拜中书郎、领著作，复直文德省，撰《中表簿》及《起居注》。
迁尚书左丞，领著作如故。
俄除游击将军，兼御史中丞。
僧孺幼贫，其母鬻纱布以自业，尝携僧孺至市，道遇中丞卤簿，驱迫沟中。
及是拜日，引驺清道，悲感不自胜。
寻以公事降为云骑将军，兼职如故，顷之即真。
是时高祖制《春景明志诗》五百字，敕在朝之人沈约已下同作，高祖以僧孺诗为工。
迁少府卿，出监吴郡。
还除尚书吏部郎，参大选，请谒不行。
出为仁威南康王长史，行府、州、国事。
王典签汤道愍昵于王，用事府内，僧孺每裁抑之，道愍遂谤讼僧孺，逮诣南司。
奉笺辞府曰： 下官不能避溺山隅，而正冠李下，既贻疵辱，方致徽绳，解箓收簪，且归初服。
窃以董生伟器，止相骄王；贾子上才，爰傅卑土。
translation: 
He studied hard at home and wrote articles as an official.
Praise your morning light and cherish my night candle.
He is highly regarded by his friends like this.
In the early years of Tianjian, Queen Linchuan was granted the opportunity to join the army in the Military Record Office, pending the imperial edict to Wende Province.
Soon he became the governor of Nanhai.
The counties and counties were often trafficked by highwaymen and ships every year, and foreign merchants came to trade. In the past, the counties and counties sold goods at very low prices in the market, bought and sold them, and obtained doubled profits from them. Officials have always been accustomed to this.
Seng Qiang then sighed and said: In the past, when people were ministers of history of Shu, they never plundered property from Shu. What I want to leave to my descendants is not to buy luggage in Yue.
Lu Tu took away nothing of his property.
After one month in office, he was ordered to return to the capital. Six hundred people from the county and Xiang, Taoist and lay people, came to the court to request that he be retained, but the court refused.
Returning to the imperial court, he was awarded the title of Zhongshulang and took charge of writings. He once again declared his duty in Saitan and compiled "Zhongbiaobu" and "Daily Notes".
He was moved to the post of Minister Zuocheng, and his leadership and writings remained as before.
Soon he was awarded the title of guerrilla general and censor Zhongcheng.
When Seng Ru was young, his family was poor, and his mother made a living by selling gauze. She once took Seng Ru to the market. On the way, she encountered the ceremonial guards leading the trip and drove them into a ditch.
When he came to worship Zhongcheng, he led the quails in front to clear the way, and he could not control his grief.
Later, he was demoted to General Yunqi due to official duties, and his part-time job remained as usual. Soon, the part-time job was changed to a full-time job.
When Emperor Gaozu was sent, he wrote a 500-word "Poetry on Spring Scenery and Mingzhi", and asked the officials Shen Yue and below to compose it in the same rhyme. Chan Dan thought that the poem composed by Heng was the most exquisite.
He was moved to the post of Shaofu Qing, and became prosperous after being released from prison.
After returning to the court, he was awarded the title of Shangshu Libulang and participated in the inspection and selection of officials. Thinking of the people he sent to follow the path, they all failed to do so.
He served as the chief historian of King Renwei of Nankang, and was responsible for the affairs of the government, state and vassal state.
Wang Dian was favored by the king, and he was domineering in the palace. The monks and children often suppressed him. Daomin then slandered the monks and brought him to court, and had him arrested and sent to the Yushitai.
In his farewell letter to the King of Nankang, Seng Ru said: I could not escape and indulge in the corner of the mountain. Instead, I straightened my crown under the plum tree. I left the stain and humiliation that led to my imprisonment. I handed over my books and took away my crown and hairpin.
I privately think that Dong Zhongshu has the talent to shoulder important responsibilities, but he only assists the arrogant king; Mai Yi has great talent, but assists the humble princes and kings.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
下官生年有值，谬仰清尘，假翼西雍，窃步东阁，多惭袨服，取乱长裾，高榻相望，直居坐右，长阶如画，独在僚端。
借其从容之词，假以宽和之色，恩礼远过申、白，荣望多厕应、徐。
厚德难逢，小人易说。
方谓离肠陨首，不足以报一言；露胆披诚，何能以酬屡顾。
宁谓罻罗裁举，微禽先落；阊阖始吹，细草仍坠。
一辞九畹，方去五云。
纵天网是漏，圣恩可恃，亦复孰寄心骸，何施眉目。
方当横潭乱海，就鱼鳖而为群；披榛扪树，从虺蛇而相伍。
岂复仰听金声，式瞻玉色。
顾步高轩，悲如霰委；踟蹰下席，泪若绠縻。
僧孺坐免官，久之不调。
友人庐江何炯犹为王府记室，乃致书于炯，以见其意。
曰：
近别之后，将隔暄寒，思子为劳，未能忘弭。
昔李叟入秦，梁生适越，犹怀怅恨，且或吟谣；况歧路之日，将离严网，辞无可怜，罪有不测。
盖画地刻木，昔人所恶，丛棘既累，于何可闻，所以握手恋恋，离别珍重。
弟爱同邹季，淫淫承睫，吾犹复抗手分背，羞学妇人。
素钟肇节，金飚戒序，起居无恙，动静履宜。
子云笔札，元瑜书记，信用既然，可乐为甚。
且使目明，能祛首疾。
甚善甚善。
吾无昔人之才而有其病，癫眩屡动，消渴频增。
委化任期，故不复呼医饮药。但恨一旦离大辱，蹈明科，去皎皎而非自污，抱郁结而无谁告。丁年蓄积，与此销亡，徒窃高价厚名，横叨公器人爵，智能无所报，筋力未之酬，所以悲至抚膺，泣尽而继之以血。
translation: 
I had a good opportunity in my life. I was able to follow the sage and start my official career in the emperor's imperial school. I was also received as a guest of the prime minister. I was ashamed to put on the fine clothes and long sleeves criss-crossed. I sat directly on the right side of the many high couches. The officials lined up in a picturesque manner, and I was alone at the front of my colleagues.
You treat me with calm words and a generous and gentle look. The favors I have received far exceed those of Shen Buhai and Bai Qi. My honor and reputation can be placed on the list of Ying Shao and Xu Mi.
Such profound kindness is hard to come across, but villains have different opinions.
I don't think even if I'm exhausted, I can't repay you for your words; if I reveal my loyalty to you, how can I repay you for taking care of me so many times?
As soon as it was caught, the bird was caught; when the west wind began to blow, the fine grass fell.
A word about the place where orchids are planted, leaving the emperor's palace.
Even though the country's laws are lenient and the divine grace can be relied upon, where can I entrust my body and mind, and what face can I use to see others?
You really should go sink in the pools and swim in the sea, socialize with fish and turtles; cut down the climbing trees, and hang out with poisonous snakes.
How can I go back to listen to your beautiful voice and look at your beautiful appearance.
Looking at your high and open carriage from a distance, my heart is filled with sorrow like snowdrops falling to the ground; lingering in front of my humble seat, my tears are like ropes.
The monk was dismissed from office after being found guilty, and was not promoted for a long time.
My friend He Jiong, who was from Lujiang, was still working as a reporter for the palace, so I wrote to He Jiong to express my feelings.
The letter said:
After we parted ways recently, I almost couldn’t say hello to you. I miss you and feel sad, which makes me really unforgettable.
In the past, when Li Sou entered the Qin Kingdom and Liang Chang moved across the country, he still harbored regrets and sometimes chanted ballads; what's more, if he goes astray today, he will encounter strict laws and regulations, there will be no pity for the lawsuit, and the punishment will be unpredictable.
People in the past were disgusted by being imprisoned and interrogated. I was tied up and detained. Where did I hear about you? So I shook hands and said goodbye to each other.
Your friendship to me is like Zou Changqian to Gongsun Hong. I have tears in my eyes, but I still raise my hands and walk in different directions, ashamed to cry like a woman.
You always pay attention to the festivals. The autumn wind has arrived. Your daily life is fine and you should act appropriately.
You have the literary talent of Yang Xiong's letters and Ruan Ma's chronicles, and you can be extremely happy to be credited like this.
It can also make the eyes clear and get rid of headaches caused by longing.
Very good, very good.
I don't have the talents of those sages in the past, but I still have their diseases. I often suffer from mental confusion and blurred vision, and my diabetes is even more serious.
I obeyed the changes of nature and allowed my death to come, so I stopped seeing a doctor and taking medicine. I just regretted that I suddenly suffered great humiliation, violated the clearly stated laws and regulations, left the light and cleanliness but could not wash away the filth, harbored grievances but no one could tell me, and accumulated all the grievances I had accumulated since my youth. Achievements, perished with them, stealing noble status and lofty reputation in vain, unexpectedly obtaining official positions and titles. From now on, my wisdom and talent will have no place to serve, and my spiritual strength will have no chance to use. Thinking of these, I am filled with sorrow, and my tears flowed out, followed by blood.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
顾惟不肖，文质无所底，盖困于衣食，迫于饥寒，依隐易农，所志不过钟庾。
久为尺板斗食之吏，以从皁衣黑绶之役，非有奇才绝学，雄略高谟，吐一言可以匡俗振民，动一议可以固邦兴国。
全璧归赵，飞矢救燕，偃息籓魏，甘卧安郢，脑日逐，髓月支，拥十万而横行，提五千而深入，将能执圭裂壤，功勒景钟，锦绣为衣，硃丹被毂，斯大丈夫之志，非吾曹之所能及已。
直以章句小才，虫篆末艺，含吐缃缥之上，翩跹樽俎之侧，委曲同之针缕，繁碎譬之米盐，孰致显荣，何能至到。
加性疏涩，拙于进取，未尝去来许、史，遨游梁、窦，俯首胁肩，先意承旨。是以三叶靡遘，不与运并，十年未徙，孰非能薄。
及除旧布新，清晷方旦，抱乐衔图，讼讴有主，而犹限一吏于岑石，隔千里于泉亭，不得奉板中涓，预衣裳之会，提戈后劲，厕龙豹之谋。
及其投劾归来，恩均旧隶，升文石，登玉陛，一见而降颜色，再睹而接话言，非藉左右之容，无劳群公之助。
又非同席共研之夙逢，笥饵卮酒之早识，一旦陪武帐，仰文陛，备聃、佚之柱下，充严、硃之席上，入班九棘，出专千里，据操撮之雄官，参人伦之显职，虽古之爵人不次，取士无名，未有蹑影追风，奔骤之若此者也。
盖基薄墙高，途遥力踬，倾蹶必然，颠匐可俟。
竟以福过灾生，人指鬼瞰，将均宥器，有验倾卮，是以不能早从曲影，遂乃取疑邪径。
故司隶懔懔，思得应弦，譬县厨之兽，如离缴之鸟，将充庖鼎，以饵鹰鹯。
虽事异钻皮，文非刺骨，犹复因兹舌杪，成此笔端，上可以投畀北方，次可以论输左校，变为丹赭，充彼舂薪。
幸圣主留善贷之德，纡好生之施，解网祝禽，下车泣罪，愍兹■诟，怜其觳觫，加肉朽胔，布叶枯株，辍薪止火，得不销烂。所谓还魂斗极，追气泰山，止复除名为民，幅巾家巷，此五十年之后，人君之赐焉。
木石感阴阳，犬马识厚薄，员首方足，孰不戴天？
而窃自有悲者，盖士无贤不肖，在朝见嫉；女无美恶，入宫见妒。
家贫，无苞苴可以事朋类，恶其乡原，耻彼戚施，何以从人，何以徇物？
外无奔走之友，内乏强近之亲。是以构市之徒，随相媒糵。
及一朝捐弃，以快怨者之心，吁！可悲矣。
盖先贵后贱，古富今贫，季伦所以发此哀音，雍门所以和其悲曲。
又迫以严秋杀气，具物多悲，长夜展转，百忧俱至。
况复霜销草色，风摇树影。
寒虫夕叫，合轻重而同悲；秋叶晚伤，杂黄紫而俱坠。
蜘蛛络幕，熠耀争飞，故无车辙马声，何闻鸣鸡吠犬。
俯眉事妻子，举手谢宾游。
方与飞走为邻，永用蓬蒿自没。
忾其长息，忽不觉生之为重。
素无一廛之田，而有数口之累。
岂曰匏而不食，方当长为佣保，糊口寄身，溘死沟渠，以实蝼蚁。悲夫！
岂复得与二三士友，抱接膝之欢，履足差肩，摛绮縠之清文，谈希微之道德。
translation: 
Just because he was not talented, his literary talents and talents were mediocre, he was poor in food and clothing, forced by hunger and cold, and turned to farming instead of doing politics and living in seclusion. All he hoped for was to get more grains.
A petty official with a low salary and a low status for a long time, who is engaged in the errands of lower-level officials. He does not have any special talents or extraordinary knowledge, and he is strategic and strategic. It is not that a word can change the customs and inspire the people, or a suggestion can strengthen the country and rejuvenate it.
He brought He's Bi intact back to the country, stabbed the King of Qin with a dagger to save Yan, lived in seclusion in Wei to prevent Wei from being invaded by Qin, and was willing to establish the Qin court to invite troops to secure Chu Li's ravine, shattering the brains of people in Baoqu, causing Dan to flow straight into the bone marrow, and possessing a hundred thousand troops. To gallop freely and unimpeded, to lead five thousand soldiers deep into various countries. They will be able to hold the gui and split the earth to make marquises. Their achievements will be engraved on the Jinggong bell. They will make clothes with brocade and paint cars with vermilion. This is the ambition of a man, and it is not something that people like us can achieve.
With only a small talent for chapters and sentences, a small skill for insects and seal scripts, wandering among books, lingering in a glass of wine, bending like a woman, and being as troubled as rice and salt, how can one achieve dignity and glory?
In addition, I am scattered, slow-talking, and clumsy in making progress. I have never interacted with people like Xu Shao and Huang Er, and wandered among people like Hu and Xuan Lei. I bowed my head and shoulders, obeyed orders, figured out the will of superior officials, and flattered and submissive to win their favor. Therefore, I have not had good luck in three generations. I have not moved for ten years. How can I say that I am not of low talent.
When the old and the new are removed and the sun rises, everyone rejoices and praises the new owner of the country, but I am still stuck in the position of a small official, thousands of miles away. I cannot hold the imperial hut as a close attendant of the emperor, participate in alliances with courtesy, or hold weapons in hand and march in the army.
When I resigned and came back, the emperor's favors were extended to the old petty officials. I climbed the steps of the palace, and the emperor looked kindly upon me when he saw me. When we met again, he talked to me cordially. The honor and favor I received did not depend on the tolerance of the emperor's attendants, nor did I need the help of princes and ministers.
Nor are they old friends who shared the same table and ink stones, or old acquaintances at banquets. Once you accompany the emperor in the civil service level of the military tent, you will be equipped with Zhuxiashi like Lao Dan and Shi Yi, and serve as a guest at the banquet like Yan Zhu and Zhu Bo. When you enter, you will be among the nine ministers of the imperial court.
The foundation is shallow and the walls are high risk. The distance is long and the strength is difficult. Overturning is inevitable and falling to the ground is expected.
In the end, disasters occur due to excessive blessings. People refer to ghosts and want to adjust the water level of the sitting instrument in time to prevent it from being too high or too low to verify that the drum prevents overturning. Therefore, it cannot follow the path of Qu Ying early and eventually embark on the suspected path.
Therefore, the chief minister treated me seriously and wanted to use me as a target for archery. I was like an animal hanging in the kitchen, like a bird shot by an arrow, placed in the cooking tripod, or used to feed eagles and magpies.
Although the matter is different from the exaggerated phenomenon, and the words are not profound, I still wrote these words into an article like this. The heaviest punishment for my crime is to be sent to the far north. The second grade may be sent to the left school to work, and he becomes a criminal in red, serving as a servant who beats grain and collects firewood.
Fortunately, the Holy Lord has the virtue of forgiving sinners, carries out the grace of cherishing living beings and refraining from killing, and opens the trap to provide a way for life. Just like the Dayu cried in pity for the sinners, lamenting my lack of ambition and integrity, pitying my fear, so that rotten bones can grow new flesh and dead branches grow. The green leaves came out and the salary was stopped to stop the fire, so that I could not be burned to death. It was like returning my soul from the North Star and recovering my breath from Mount Tai. I only reduced my job to a citizen and lived leisurely in the alleys of my hometown. From then on to fifty years later, it was all given by the monarch.
Wood and stone can feel the changes of yin and yang in heaven and earth, dogs and horses can distinguish the thickness of them, among the people with round heads and square feet, who does not stand between heaven and earth?
In private, there is sadness because men, whether virtuous or unworthy, are envied by others in court; women, regardless of beauty or ugliness, are envied by others in the palace.
My family is poor and I have no gifts to give to my friends. I hate hypocrites and am ashamed of their flattery. Why do I obey others and follow the customs?
I have no friends outside who are running for me, and I have no close relatives inside, so those who sow discord will frame and accuse me.
How pitiful it would be for me to be deposed and let those who hate me get their wish!
First noble and then lowly, rich in ancient times and poor now, this is why Ji Lun makes this mournful sound, and why the people of Yongmen respond to Han E's tragic song.
Also forced by the cold and gloomy atmosphere of autumn, everything is sad, the long nights are tossing and turning, and all kinds of worries are coming.
What's more, it's the color of frost hitting the grass, and the wind is shaking the shadows of the trees.
Cold insects chirp at night, high and low, strong and weak gather together and share the same sorrow; autumn leaves are injured late, yellow and purple mix and fall.
Spiders build webs, fireflies compete for flight, and there is no sound of rutting horses for a long time. How can you hear the crowing of dogs and the barking of dogs.
He bows his head to serve his wife and raises his hand to decline guests.
I only live next to birds and beasts, forever burying myself among the basil.
Sighing at this long-term tranquility, I suddenly realized the importance of life.
There is usually no land, but several people are involved.
Could it be said that if you are not of use, you should work as a hired labor for a long time, making a living, and suddenly die in a ditch to feed ants? How sad!
How can I meet with two or three intellectual friends again, have the joy of talking to each other, step on the shoulders, write elegant articles with ups and downs of thoughts, and talk about nihilistic and mysterious morality.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
唯吴冯之遇夏馥，范彧之值孔嵩，愍其留赁，怜此行乞耳。
傥不以垢累，时存寸札，则虽先犬马，犹松乔焉。
去矣何生，高树芳烈。
裁书代面，笔泪俱下。
久之，起为安西安成王参军，累迁镇右始兴王中记室，北中郎南康王谘议参军，入直西省，知撰谱事。
普通三年，卒，时年五十八。
僧孺好坟籍，聚书至万余卷，率多异本，与沈约、任昉家书相埒。
少笃志精力，于书无所不睹。
其文丽逸，多用新事，人所未见者，世重其富。
僧孺集《十八州谱》七百一十卷，《百家谱集》十五卷，《东南谱集抄》十卷，文集三十卷，《两台弹事》不入集内为五卷，及《东宫新记》，并行于世。
张率，字士简，吴郡吴人。
祖永，宋右光禄大夫。
父瑰，齐世显贵，归老乡邑，天监初，授右光禄，加给事中。
率年十二，能属文，常日限为诗一篇，稍进作赋颂，至年十六，向二千许首。
齐始安王萧遥光为扬州，召迎主簿，不就。
起家著作佐郎。
建武三年，举秀才，除太子舍人。
与同郡陆倕幼相友狎，常同载诣左卫将军沈约，适值任昉在焉，约乃谓昉曰： 此二子后进才秀，皆南金也，卿可与定交。
由此与昉友善。
迁尚书殿中郎。
出为西中郎南康王功曹史，以疾不就。
久之，除太子洗马。
高祖霸府建，引为相国主簿。
天监初，临川王已下并置友、学。
以率为鄱阳王友，迁司徒谢朏掾，直文德待诏省。敕使抄乙部书，又使撰妇人事二十余条，勒成百卷。使工书人琅邪王深、吴郡范怀约、褚洵等缮写，以给后宫。
率又为《待诏赋》奏之，甚见称赏。手敕答曰： 省赋殊佳。
相如工而不敏，枚皋速而不工，卿可谓兼二子于金马矣。
又侍宴赋诗，高祖乃别赐率诗曰： 东南有才子，故能服官政。
translation: 
Only Wu Feng met Xia Fu, and Shi Fan met Kong Song. They sympathized with him for being employed as a street pawn and sympathized with him for begging.
If you don't think that my shame will harm you, and you always take care of me and write short letters, you can still live as long as Chisongzi and Wang Ziqiao despite your previous illness.
How can we live after we go away? We have made great achievements in Liufang's life.
Writing this letter in lieu of a face-to-face meeting brought tears to my eyes.
A long time later, he was appointed by King Cheng of Anxi to join the army. After being promoted, he was promoted to the office of Wang Zhongji of Youduo County in the town. King Yichen, the Lang of Beizhong, consulted with King Yichen to join the army. He was on duty in west Province and was in charge of writing musical notations.
He died three years later at the age of fifty-eight.
The monks and children loved ancient classics and collected more than 10,000 volumes of books, most of which were rare, equal to the collections of Shen Yue and Ren Fang.
When he was young, he was dedicated to reading books.
His articles are gorgeous and elegant, and he records many new things that others have never seen before. People in the world value him for his rich knowledge.
The 710-volume "Eighteen Prefecture Genealogy" collected by Sengru, the 15-volume "Collection of Hundred Family Genealogy", the 10-volume "Collection of Southeastern Genealogy", and the 30-volume Collection of Essays. "Liangtai Danshi" is not included in the collection and has five volumes, as well as "New Records of the East Palace", which have been circulated in the world.
Zhang Shu, whose courtesy name is Shi Jian, is from Wu County, Wu County.
Grandfather Zhang Yong served as Doctor Youguanglu in the Song Dynasty.
His father, Zhang Quan, had a high status in the Qi Dynasty and returned to his hometown to take care of his old age. In the early years of Tianjian, he was appointed Youguanglu and added to Shizhong.
When Zhang Su was twelve years old, he could write articles. He would often limit himself to writing one poem a day. If he improved a little, he would write poems and poems. By the age of sixteen, he had written more than two thousand poems.
In the Qi Dynasty, Xiao Yaoguang, the king of Shi'an, was appointed governor of Yangzhou and summoned him to be the chief secretary, but he did not take up the post.
He started as Zuo Lang.
In the third year of Jianwu's reign, he promoted talents and appointed him as Prince Sheren.
Lu Chui, who was from the same county as Yu, had been very close and friendly when they were young. They often rode together to the home of Zuowei General Shen Yue. One day they happened to meet Ren Fang, and Shen Yue said to Ren Fang: These two are talented among the younger generations, both outstanding talents in the south. You can become friends with them.
From this, Ren Xi is very friendly.
Zhang was moved to the post of Zhonglang of Shangshu Palace.
He was appointed as Xizhonglang, Nansai Wang Gongcao Shi, but he did not take office due to illness.
After a long time, he was appointed as the prince to wash horses.
When Emperor Gaozu built the vassal palace, he was used as the chief minister of the state.
In the early years of Tianjian, all the friends and academic officials below the king of Linchuan were appointed, and Zhang was appointed as the plastic orbit friend.
He was moved to the post of Situ Xie Naotun, and when he was on duty in Shao Province, he was ordered to copy the second book. He was also asked to write more than 20 articles on women's affairs, which he wrote into hundreds of volumes. Wang Shen, a Langxie man who was good at calligraphy, Wu Dengren Jianbao Diao, Sha Di and others were sent to copy the copies and give them to the concubines in the harem.
Zhang Sui also wrote "Wai Shao Fu" as a memorial, which was highly praised by Emperor Gaozu. He wrote the imperial edict in his own hand and replied: "I feel very good after reading it carefully."
Sima Xiangru's poems were written neatly but not neatly, and Mei Gao's writing was quick but not neatly. It can be said that Qing had the strengths of both of them among the Jinmamen bachelors who were waiting for imperial edicts.
When he was accompanying the banquet and composing poems, Emperor Gaozu gave Zhang Shu another poem, saying: There are talented people in the southeast, so they can serve the government.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
余虽惭古昔，得人今为盛。
率奉诏往返数首。
其年，迁秘书丞，引见玉衡殿。
高祖曰： 秘书丞天下清官，东南胄望未有为之者，今以相处，足为卿誉。
其恩遇如此。
四年三月，禊饮华光殿。
其日，河南国献舞马，诏率赋之，曰：
臣闻 天用莫如龙，地用莫如马。
故《礼》称骊騵，《诗》诵骝骆。
先景遗风之美，世所得闻；吐图腾光之异，有时而出。
洎我大梁，光有区夏，广运自中，员照无外，日入之所，浮琛委贽，风被之域，越险效珍，軨服乌号之骏，篸駼豢龙之名。
而河南又献赤龙驹，有奇貌绝足，能拜善舞。
天子异之，使臣作赋，曰：
维梁受命四载，元符既臻，协律之事具举，胶庠之教必陈，檀舆之用已偃，玉辂之御方巡。
考帝文而率通，披皇图以大观。
庆惟道而必先，灵匪圣其谁赞。
见河龙之瑞唐，瞩天马之祯汉。
既叶符而比德，且同条而共贯。
询国美于斯今，迈皇王于曩昔。
散大明以烛幽，扬义声而远斥。
固施之于不穷，谅无所乎朝夕。
并承流以请吏，咸向风而率职。
纳奇贡于绝区，致龙媒于殊域。
伊况古而赤文，爰在兹而硃翼。
既效德于炎运，亦表祥于尚色。
资皎月而载生，祖河房而挺授。
种北唐之绝类，嗣西宛之鸿胄。
禀妙足而逸伦，有殊姿而特茂。
善环旋于荠夏，知蹈飖于金奏。
超六种于周闲，逾八品于汉厩。
translation: 
Although I am ashamed of the past, I am prosperous now.
Zhang led Feng Shao to write several poems in response.
In the year of Qianqian, he moved to the post of Secretary Cheng and was received in Yuheng Hall.
Emperor Gaozu said: The secretary-general is an upright official in the world. No descendant of the southeastern emperors and nobles has held this position. Now that you are in this position, it will be enough to give you a good reputation.
This is how he was treated.
In March of the fourth year, a banquet was held in Huaguang Hall near the water.
In the early days of the day, he returned to sell Li and offered dancing horses. He ordered Dan Shan to write a poem for this event, saying:
I heard that there is no one better than a dragon in heaven and no one better than a horse in earth.
Therefore, the "Li" calls the beautiful horse "Li Qiao", and the "Book of Songs" praises the horse as "Liu Luo".
The beauty of a wind-carrying horse that can run before the shadow of the sun can be heard in the world; the strange thing of a dragon and a horse emerging from the river with its mouth in its mouth and full of splendor will appear at a certain time.
In my Luan Dynasty, there were many Xia, and the land extended from the center to all directions, and ruled the world without exception. People in the land of sunset and the land of winds went to dangerous places to offer treasures as a greeting gift.
Henan also contributed the Red Dragon Horse, which has a strange appearance and unparalleled four legs, and can worship and dance well.
The emperor was surprised and sent his envoy to write a poem, saying:
In the fourth year since the founding of the Liang Dynasty, great auspiciousness has come. Everything to coordinate Lu Lu has been completed, the teaching of the school must be spread, the use of military chariots has disappeared, and the emperor's jade jurisdiction will set out for inspection.
They are all connected by the imperial examination, and grand and spectacular by looking at the river map.
Rewards are based on morality. Gods do not praise whoever the saint praises.
The sight of a dragon and horse emerging from the river with a picture in its mouth was an auspicious omen for Tang Yao, and seeing the heavenly horse was auspicious for Mo Dai.
It is both auspicious and ethical, and the principles are consistent.
Examine the reputation of the country today, which is better than that of the holy kings in the past.
The moon emits light to illuminate the darkness, and spreads the reputation of virtue and justice to the distance.
Insist that the benefits are endless, and show sincerity no matter how long it takes.
He also took advantage of the situation and invited officials to be appointed. They all heard the news and admired him and abided by their duties.
A strange tribute was paid from the Jue area, and horses were sent from the special area.
There was red text in ancient times, but now it has red wings.
The lotus sculpture not only presents merit and virtue, but also expresses auspiciousness with the advocating color.
Born by the bright moonlight, it is strong and straight due to the river dragon taught by its ancestors.
It is a unique species of Tang Yao in the north and a strong descendant of the left side of the Western Regions.
It is endowed with beautiful four legs that are superior to those of its kind, and has an unusual posture that stands out.
He is good at navigating the land covered with thorns and knows how to dance to the sound of bells and cymbals.
It surpassed the six breeds of horses in the stables of Emperor Zhou and the eight breeds in the stables of Han Dynasty.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
伊自然之有质，宁改观于肥瘦。
岂徒服皁而养安，与进驾以驰骤。
尔其挟尺县凿之辨，附蝉伏兔之别，十形五观之姿，三毛八肉之势，臣何得而称焉，固已详于前制。
徒观其神爽，视其豪异，轶跨野而忽逾轮，齐秀麒而并末驷。
贬代盘而陋小华，越定单而少天骥。
信无等于漏面，孰有取于决鼻。
可以迹章、亥之所未游，逾禹、益之所未至。
将不得而屈指，亦何暇以理辔。
若迹遍而忘反，非我皇之所事。
方润色于前古，邈深文而储思。
既而机事多暇，青春未移。
时惟上巳，美景在斯。
遵镐饮之故实，陈洛宴之旧仪。
漕伊川而分派，引激水以回池。
集国良于民俊，列树茂于皇枝。
纷高冠以连衽，锵鸣玉而肩随。
清辇道于上林，肃华台之金座。
望发色于绿苞，伫流芬于紫裹。听磬寔之毕举，聆《韶》、《夏》之咸播。
承六奏之既阕，及九变之已成。
均仪禽于唐序，同舞兽于虞庭。
怀夏后之九代，想陈王之紫骍。
乃命涓人，效良骏，经周卫，入钩陈。言右牵之已来，宁执朴而后进。
既倾首于律同，又蹀足于鼓振。
擢龙首，回鹿躯，睨两镜，蹙双凫。
既就场而雅拜，时赴曲而徐趋。
敏躁中于促节，捷繁外于惊桴。
骐行骥动，虎发龙骧；雀跃燕集，鹄引凫翔。
妍七盘之绰约，陵九剑之抑扬。
岂借仪于褕袂，宁假器于髦皇。
婉脊投颂，俯膺合雅。
露沫歕红，沾汗流赭。
translation: 
He has a natural and talented personality, and how can fatness or weight loss change his appearance?
Is it just for the officials to raise it in comfort, and should it be driven in a carriage?
It can distinguish between holding a ruler and hanging chisels, can tell the difference between a cicada and a rabbit, has ten shapes and five views, and has the momentum of three hairs and eight flesh. How can I praise it? It has been described in detail in the works of predecessors.
Observe its high spirit and its unique boldness. It runs across the fields without caring about the wheeled horse. It matches the beautiful horse and abandons the four-horse horse.
He denounces Dai Panma and despises Xiaohua Horse. He goes beyond the order and despises Tianji.
It is believed that no equivalent horse has appeared, and those horses can be said to be its ancestors.
You can travel through Dazhang and set up Hai to reach the dead land before you travel; you can cross Yu's path and benefit from the land that has not yet been reached.
I won’t be able to count the mileage with my fingers, and I won’t have time to tidy up my horse’s reins.
If we follow the footsteps of our predecessors and forget to return, that is not what our emperor wants to do.
It will polish the ancient texts and accumulate rich thoughts beyond the profound diction.
Soon the cardinals of the country had a lot of free time after important events, and Chunxiu had not moved away yet.
It’s the third day of March, and the beauty is all in time.
Following the old custom of King Wu having a banquet with his ministers in Haojing, the old ritual of King Su having a banquet in Kuangdan is displayed.
The canal was widened to divert the water in Zhiye, and the rapids were guided to circulate in the pond.
Gather the talents of the people into the country's talents, and create outstanding talents among the emperor's relatives.
Wearing a high crown and tie-breasted neckline, the jade pendants ringing on her shoulders.
In Shangtangjian, we clean the driving road and clean the emperor's throne in Huatai.
Looking at the light emitted from the green buds, the purple clothes I wear are also full of fragrance. Hear the chimes and chimes being played in unison, and listen to the playing of "Shao Music" and "Xia Music".
Taking over the six memorials has come to an end. Then the nine transformations were completed.
The phoenix in Xu Tang Dynasty is the same as the dancing beast in Yu Ting.
I miss the nine-generation horses of Queen Xia, and long for the purple horses of King Chen.
Then he ordered the servants in the palace to test the good horses, passed around the palace, and entered the harem. He reported that the horse he had brought to the right had arrived, but he came back with a whip and whipped it.
He can not only tilt his head to the music, but also tap his feet to the beat of the drum.
He raised his dragon's head, turned his deer's body, squinted his eyes, and closed his ears like two waterfowl.
Not only was he present to worship gracefully, but he also moved forward slowly to the music.
The rapid beat stirs up the inner response quickly, and the rapid drum beats rapidly change numerous movements.
Qiji moves, tigers and dragons soar; swallows gather for joy, swans draw their necks, and water birds fly.
It is comparable to the graceful posture of the seven-pan dance, and surpasses the cadence of the nine swords.
Its appearance is not due to its beautiful clothes, but rather to its magnificent mane.
The beautiful spine is consistent with the appearance, and the head bowed to the chest is elegant and elegant.
The saliva from the mouth sprays red gas, and the sweat soaked in it also oozes red.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
乃却走于集灵，驯惠养于豊夏。
郁风雷之壮心，思展足于南野。
若彼符瑞之富，可以臻介丘而昭卒业，搢绅群后，诚希末光，天子深穆为度，未之访也。
何则？进让殊事，岂非帝者之弥文哉。
今四卫外封，五岳内郡，宜弘下禅之规，增上封之训，背清都而日行，指云郊而玄运。
将绝尘而弭辙，类飞鸟与駏驴。
总三才而驱骛，按五御而超摅。
翳卿云于华盖，翼条风于属车。
无逸御于玉轸，不泛驾于金舆。
饰中岳之绝轨，营奉高之旧墟。
训厚况于人神，弘施育于黎献。
垂景炎于长世，集繁祉于斯万，在庸臣之方刚，有从军之大愿。
必自兹而展采，将同畀于庖煇。
悼长卿之遗书，悯周南之留恨。
时与到洽、周兴嗣同奉诏为赋，高祖以率及兴嗣为工。
其年，父忧去职。
其父侍妓数十人，善讴者有色貌，邑子仪曹郎顾玩之求娉焉，讴者不愿，遂出家为尼。
尝因斋会率宅，玩之乃飞书言与率奸，南司以事奏闻，高祖惜其才，寝其奏，然犹致世论焉。
服阕后，久之不仕。
七年，敕召出，除中权建安王中记室参军，预长名问讯，不限日。
俄有敕直寿光省，治丙丁部书抄。
八年，晋安王戍石头，以率为云麾中记室。
王迁南兗州，转宣毅谘议参军，并兼记室。
王还都，率除中书侍郎。
translation: 
So he retreated from the Jiling Palace where he worshiped the gods, and raised it with kindness and love in the summer when the water and grass were luxuriant.
It has a strong ambition like wind and thunder, and wants to gallop in the southern wilderness.
If a lot of good omens appear, you can go to the mountains to announce the completion of the great cause. After the gentry group, you sincerely hope to get the last light, but the emperor has not paid a visit as far as being quiet and dignified. Why?
Feng Chan's aggressiveness and humility are special things. If he goes to visit him, wouldn't he be Emperor Mika Wenshi?
Now that the Four Guards are outside the feudal lords and the Five Sacred Mountains are included in the territory, it is even more necessary to tighten the rules for enfeoffing Zen and increase the number of instructions to be entrusted to the emperor. They should leave the palace and move toward the outer world to respect the destiny of heaven.
There is no trace of driving a pure horse carriage, just like a bird flying and a donkey galloping.
The three talents who take charge of the world and the people are driving freely and freely, and the five chariots are free to leap in a transcendental way.
The emperor's carriage was covered with auspicious five-color clouds, and the attendant's carriage was protected by the spring northeast wind.
The emperor's chariot does not have a superior driver, nor does the horse fail to follow the track because of its loose spirit.
The roads interrupted by Zhongyue were renovated and the old place for worshiping Mount Tai was built.
Follow the rules of giving gifts to people and gods, and train many sages.
The great virtues left behind will last forever, gather many blessings, be vigorous and vigorous in the face of mediocrity, and have the great desire to serve in the army.
It must show its style now and send it to the kitchen for barbecue in the future.
I remember Sima Xiangru’s suicide note and sympathize with Zhou Nan’s regrets.
At that time, Dao Qia and Zhou Xingsi wrote Fu under the Shao Order. Emperor Gaozu thought that Zhang Sui and Xingsi wrote neatly.
In the early 1990s, he left his job after his father died.
His father had dozens of prostitutes, and there was one prostitute who was good at singing and had a good look. Gu Wanzhi, a native of the same city, Cao Lang, asked her to marry her. The prostitute was unwilling, so she became a nun.
She once went to Ji Kuangkong's house during the fasting party, and she wrote an anonymous letter from a distance saying that the prostitute had committed adultery with Jikong. The censor reported the matter to the imperial censor. Emperor Gaozu cherished his talent, so he shelved the memorial. However, it still aroused public discussion.
After the period of mourning was over, he did not serve as an official for a long time.
In the seventh year, the emperor issued a letter from Shao to summon him to serve as an official, and he was appointed Zhongquan Jian'an Wang Zhongji's Office to join the army and participate in the interrogation of the long list. There was no time limit.
Soon Shao Shu asked him to be on duty in Shouguang Province, responsible for copying the books of Zi and Jibu.
In the eighth year, the king of Jin'an guarded Shitou and appointed Zhang as the head of the Yunhui Zhongji Office.
Wang Qian was appointed as the governor of Nanyanzhou, and Zhang was transferred to Xuanyi to consult and join the army, and also served as the recorder's office.
When the king returned to the capital, Zhang was appointed as the Vice Minister of Zhongshu.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
十三年，王为荆州，复以率为宣惠谘议，领江陵令。
王为江州，以谘议领记室，出监豫章、临川郡。
率在府十年，恩礼甚笃。
还除太子仆，累迁招远将军、司徒右长史、扬州别驾。
率虽历居职务，未尝留心簿领，及为别驾奏事，高祖览牒问之，并无对，但奉答云 事在牒中 。
高祖不悦。
俄迁太子家令，与中庶子陆倕、仆射刘孝绰对掌东宫管记，迁黄门侍郎。
出为新安太守，秩满还都，未至，丁所生母忧。
大通元年，服未阕，卒，时年五十三。
昭明太子遣使赠赙，与晋安王纲令曰： 近张新安又致故。
其人才笔弘雅，亦足嗟惜。
随弟府朝，东西日久，尤当伤怀也。
比人物零落，特可潸慨，属有今信，乃复及之。
率嗜酒，事事宽恕，于家务尤忘怀。
在新安，遣家僮载米三千石还吴宅，既至，遂秏太半。
率问其故，答曰： 雀鼠秏也。
率笑而言曰： 壮哉雀鼠。
竟不研问。
少好属文，而《七略》及《艺文志》所载诗赋，今亡其文者，并补作之。
所著《文衡》十五卷，文集三十卷，行于世。
子长公嗣。
刘孝绰，字孝绰，彭城人，本名冉。
祖勔，宋司空忠昭公。
父绘，齐大司马霸府从事中郎。
孝绰幼聪敏，七岁能属文。
舅齐中书郎王融深赏异之，常与同载适亲友，号曰神童。
融每言曰： 天下文章，若无我当归阿士。
阿士，孝绰小字也。
绘，齐世掌诏诰。
孝绰年未志学，绘常使代草之。
父党沈约、任昉、范云等闻其名，并命驾先造焉，昉尤相赏好。
范云年长绘十余岁，其子孝才与孝绰年并十四五，及云遇孝绰，便申伯季，乃命孝才拜之。
天监初，起家著作佐郎，为《归沐诗》以赠任昉，昉报章曰： 彼美洛阳子，投我怀秋作。
讵慰耋嗟人，徒深老夫托。
translation: 
In the thirteenth year, the king was appointed as the governor of Jingzhou, and then Zhang was appointed to consult Xuanhui and led the Jiangling Order.
The royal palace moved to Jiangzhou, and Zhang led the office to consult and lead the record office, and was released from prison in Yuzhang and Linchuan counties.
Zhang Sui stayed in the palace for ten years and received great favor and courtesy.
After returning to the capital, he was appointed as a servant of the prince. After repeated promotions, he was promoted to General Zhaoyuan, Situ Youchangshi, and Yangzhou Biejia.
Although Zhang Sui had been in office for many years, he never paid attention to the official records. When Ren Biejia came to report something, Gaozu read the report and asked him about things, but he couldn't answer him. He could only reply that "all the things were written in the report."
Gaozu was not happy after hearing this.
Soon he was moved to the position of Prince's family magistrate, jointly in charge of Shu Palace Records with his concubine Lu Ren and Prince's servant Liu Xiaochuo, and moved to Huangmen Shilang.
He was appointed as the prefect of Xin'an and returned to the capital at the end of his term. Before he arrived, his biological mother died.
In the first year of Datong, he died before the mourning period was over. He was fifty-three years old.
Prince Zhaoming sent an envoy to present the property used for the funeral, and praised him with Xiao Gang, King of Jin'an, saying: Zhang Sui has passed away recently.
It is really a pity to send people with literary talent and elegance.
Following my brother's government, it took a long time from Shu to west, which made people even more sad.
Recently, some talented, virtuous and famous people have died, which makes people cry with emotion. Then when they hear the news, they feel sad again.
Zhang Su likes to drink, is tolerant in his dealings, and doesn't mind housework.
When he was in Xin'an, he sent his boy to carry three thousand shi of rice back to his hometown of Wu. When the boy arrived in Wu, most of the rice was missing.
Zhang Shu asked the reason, and the boy replied: The sparrows and mice ate it.
Zhang Sui smiled and said: "The birds and mice eat so fast."
He didn't ask any more questions.
When he was young, he liked to write articles, and he also made up for the poems and poems written in "Qilue" and "Yiwenzhi" that are now lost.
He wrote fifteen volumes of "Wenheng" and thirty volumes of collected works, which are widely circulated in the world.
The son's name is Chang Gong's heir.
Liu Xiaochuo, whose courtesy name is Xiaochuo, is from Pengcheng and his original name is Ran.
His grandfather's name was Liu Meng, and he was Duke Zhongzhao of Sikong in the Song Dynasty.
His father, Ming Hui, worked as a lieutenant in the Bafu of the Great Sima of the Qi Dynasty.
Xiaochuo was smart and clever when he was a child, and he could write articles at the age of seven.
His uncle Wang Rong, the official secretary of the Qi Dynasty, admired him deeply and thought he was very strange. He often took him by car to visit relatives and friends, and everyone called him a child prodigy.
Wang Rong often said: If the well-written articles in the world are not mine, then they should belong to Ash.
Ashi is Xiaochuo's nickname.
Liu Hui was responsible for drafting Shaogao during the Qi Dynasty.
Xiaochuo was still under fifteen years old, so Liu Hui often asked him to draft for him.
His father's cronies Shen Yue, Ren Fang, Fan Yun, etc. heard about his reputation and immediately drove to visit him. Ren Fang was particularly appreciative and friendly to him.
Fan Yun was more than ten years older than Liu Hui, and his sons Xiaocai and Xiaochuo were both fourteen or fifteen years old. When Fan Yun met Xiaochuo, he declared that they were brothers and ordered Xiaocai to pay him a courtesy visit.
In the early years of Tianjian, he started his career as Zuo Lang, and wrote "Poem of Returning to Mu" as a gift to Ren La. Ren Fang gave him a poem in return, saying: You are a beautiful man from Luoyang, and you have given me this poem to cherish autumn.
I sent Nexiang to express my condolences to the elderly, but actually gave me a profound entrustment.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
直史兼褒贬，辖司专疾恶。
九折多美疹，匪报庶良药。
子其崇锋颖，春耕励秋获。
其为名流所重如此。
迁太子舍人，俄以本官兼尚书水部郎，奉启陈谢，手敕答曰： 美锦未可便制，簿领亦宜稍习。
顷之即真。
高祖雅好虫篆，时因宴幸，命沈约、任昉等言志赋诗，孝绰亦见引。
尝侍宴，于坐为诗七首，高祖览其文，篇篇嗟赏，由是朝野改观焉。
寻有敕知青、北徐、南徐三州事，出为平南安成王记室，随府之镇。
寻补太子洗马，迁尚书金部侍郎，复为太子洗马，掌东宫管记。
出为上虞令，迁除秘书丞。高祖谓舍人周舍曰： 第一官当用第一人。
故以孝绰居此职。
公事免。
寻复除秘书丞，出为镇南安成王谘议，入以事免。
起为安西记室，累迁安西骠骑谘议参军，敕权知司徒右长史事，迁太府卿、太子仆，复掌东宫管记。
时昭明太子好士爱文，孝绰与陈郡殷芸、吴郡陆倕、琅邪王筠、彭城到洽等，同见宾礼。
太子起乐贤堂，乃使画工先图孝绰焉。
太子文章繁富，群才咸欲撰录，太子独使孝绰集而序之。
迁员外散骑常侍，兼廷尉卿，顷之即真。
初，孝绰与到洽友善，同游东宫。
孝绰自以才优于洽，每于宴坐，嗤鄙其文，洽衔之。
及孝绰为廷尉卿，携妾入官府，其母犹停私宅。
洽寻为御史中丞，遣令史案其事，遂劾奏之，云： 携少妹于华省，弃老母于下宅。
高祖为隐其恶，改 妹 为 姝 。
坐免官。
孝绰诸弟，时随籓皆在荆、雍，乃与书论共洽不平者十事，其辞皆鄙到氏。
又写别本封呈东宫，昭明太子命焚之，不开视也。
时世祖出为荆州，至镇，与孝绰书曰： 君屏居多暇，差得肆意典坟，吟咏情性，比复稀数古人，不以委约而能不伎痒；且虞卿、史迁由斯而作，想摛属之兴，益当不少。
洛地纸贵，京师名动，彼此一时，何其盛也。
translation: 
He writes straight letters and gives praise and criticism, and when he is in office, he hates bad people.
I have become a good doctor after repeated setbacks, and your advice is a good prescription.
Your article praises those who are brave enough to work hard in the spring and reap the harvest in the autumn.
He was praised by celebrities like this.
He was moved to the position of Prince Sheren, and soon he was appointed as an official and minister of the Ministry of Water. He started to express his gratitude. The emperor replied with an edict: "The beautiful brocade cannot be made immediately, and the official document book should be familiarized slowly."
Soon the part-time job was changed to practical teaching.
Emperor Gaozu was very fond of Chongshu, so he went to banquets in person. He ordered Shen Yue, Ren Fang and others to express their aspirations and compose poems, and Xiao Chuo was also introduced.
He once served a banquet and wrote seven poems in his seat. Emperor Gaozu read his articles and praised them all. As a result, people in the government and the public changed their views on him.
Soon there was an order for Xiaochuo to take charge of the political affairs of Qing, Beixu and Nanxu prefectures, and to serve as the royal secretary of Ancheng in Pingnan, and to accompany the palace to the garrison.
Soon after, he was granted the title of Prince Washing Horses, and was moved to the post of Shangshu Jinbu Lang. He was also appointed Prince Washing Horses, and was in charge of the palace management records.
After taking up the post of Minister of Shangyu and returning to the capital, he was appointed Secretary Cheng. Emperor Gaozu said to his minister Zhou She: The most important officials should appoint the first-class talents.
Therefore, Xiaochuo was appointed to this position.
Removed from office on official business.
Soon after, he was appointed Secretary Cheng and served as a consultant to King Ansheng in the south of Zhennan. When he returned to the capital, he was dismissed for some reasons.
He was appointed to the office of Anxi Chronicles. After repeated promotions, he was promoted to Anxi Hussar and joined the army. He was ordered to know the history of Situ Youchang. He was moved to the position of Minister of the Taifu and Prince's Servant, and then took charge of the Records of the East Palace.
At that time, Prince Zhaoming was a scholar and ai wen. Xiaochuo, Yin Yun from Chenjun, Lu Ren from Wujun, Wang Jun from Langxie, and Daqia from Pengcheng were all treated as distinguished guests.
When the prince built Lexian Hall, he asked the painter to paint Xiaochuo's portrait first.
The prince wrote many articles, and many talented people wanted to compile a collection for him. The prince asked Xiao Chuo to compile the collection and write the preface.
He was moved to serve as a regular servant of the Sanqi and a court official, and then he was changed to an actual professor.
At first, Xiao Chuo and Dao Xia were friendly, and they interacted with the prince together.
Xiao Chuo thought he was better than Dao Qia. Every time he sat at a banquet, he would laugh at Dao Qia's articles. Dao Qia resented him.
When Xiaochuo was appointed as Tingweiqing, he brought his concubine into the government, but his mother still lived in Jiaxiang.
Not long after he arrived at Qia, he was appointed as the censor Zhongcheng. He sent the official in charge of documents to investigate the matter and immediately impeached him, saying: "I took my young sister to live in a high-class residence, and abandoned my old mother in a low-class residence."
Gaozu concealed his bad behavior and changed the character "mei" to "shu".
He was dismissed from his official post.
The younger brothers of Xiaochuo were each in Jingzhou and Yongzhou with the feudal lord at that time. They wrote to them a total of ten things about the unfairness of the negotiation. The words in the letters were all contemptuous of the Dao family.
Another letter was sealed and sent to the Cambodian palace. Prince Zhaoming ordered the letter to be burned without opening it.
At that time, Shizu was appointed as the governor of Jingzhou, and he wrote to Xiaochuo in the garrison, saying: You have a lot of free time in seclusion, and you can still read ancient books at will, sing poems to express your feelings, and repeatedly compare a few ancients. It is not because of fatigue, illness and poverty that you can lose the desire to write; besides, Yu Qing and Sima Qian both wrote for this reason, and they should have a lot of interest in writing articles.
Luoyang is expensive because of good articles, and the capital is shocked because of the author's famous name. The past and present are like the same time, how prosperous it is.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
近在道务闲，微得点翰，虽无纪行之作，颇有怀旧之篇。
至此已来，众诸屑役。
小生之诋，恐取辱于庐江；遮道之奸，虑兴谋于从事。
方且褰帷自厉，求瘼不休，笔墨之功，曾何暇豫。
至于心乎爱矣，未尝有歇，思乐惠音，清风靡闻。
譬夫梦想温玉，饥渴明珠，虽愧卞、随，犹为好事。
新有所制，想能示之。
勿等清虑，徒虚其请。
无由赏悉，遣此代怀。
数路计行，迟还芳札。
孝绰答曰： 伏承自辞皇邑，爰至荆台，未劳刺举，且摛高丽。
近虽预观尺锦，而不睹全玉。
昔临淄词赋，悉与杨修，未殚宝笥，顾惭先哲。
渚宫旧俗，朝衣多故，李固之荐二邦，徐珍之奏七邑，威怀之道，兼而有之。
当欲使金石流功，耻用翰墨垂迹。
虽乖知二，偶达圣心。
爰自退居素里，却扫穷闬，比杨伦之不出，譬张挚之杜门。
昔赵卿穷愁，肆言得失；汉臣郁志，广叙盛衰。
彼此一时，拟非其匹。
窃以文豹何辜，以文为罪。
由此而谈，又何容易。
故韬翰吮墨，多历寒暑，既阙子幼南山之歌，又微敬通渭水之赋，无以自同献笑，少酬褒诱。
且才乖体物，不拟作于玄根；事殊宿诺，宁贻惧于硃亥。
顾己反躬，载怀累息。
但瞻言汉广，邈若天涯，区区一心，分宵九逝。
translation: 
Recently, I have been free from government affairs on the road, so I have been writing a few articles. Although there are no works describing my experiences during the journey, there are some chapters that are nostalgic for the past.
Since arriving at Xiangxiang, there have been many complicated and trivial official duties.
The slander of the unknown scholar is probably due to being insulted in Lujiang; the treacherous plot to block the road is probably due to official promotion.
Just when I was about to lift the curtain to encourage myself and constantly explore the shortcomings of politics, when I was studying ink and writing, I didn't have time to participate.
As for the love for it in my heart, it has never stopped. I like to see your letters, but there is only the breeze but no news.
It's like dreaming of a smooth jade, or longing for a pearl of luminous light. Although they are not as ashamed as Bian He and Suihou, they still like it.
There are new productions recently, I hope you can show them to me.
Don't wait until you are thinking about me before sending favors, let me ask in vain.
I have nothing to give you, you know, but writing this letter represents my memory of you.
I checked the distance and calculated the travel date, but it took a long time to reply to you.
Xiaochuo wrote back and said: Since you bid farewell to the capital and arrived at Taifu in Jingzhou, you have not bothered you to speak out about my faults and have written elegant and beautiful articles.
Although I have seen your beautifully written letters recently, I have not seen all your works.
In the past, all the poems and poems written by the Marquis of Linzi were handed over to Yang Xiu, but not all were kept in boxes. I felt ashamed in front of the philosophers of the previous generation.
According to the old customs of Zhu Palace, court officials were in many troubles. Li Gu recommended two wise men, and Xu Mi impeached five county governors. The governance methods were both coercive and gentle.
We should cast gold and carve stones to spread our merits, and be ashamed to use them to write articles and leave handwriting.
Although I only know one side of this view but not the other, there are still times when I can access the Sacred Heart.
Since I retreated to my humble hometown, I have been staying behind closed doors in the back alleys to thank guests, like Yang Lun of the later Han Dynasty who refused to serve as an official, and like Zhang Zhi of the Han Dynasty who refused to serve as an official.
In the past, Yu Qing of the State of Zhao was poor and sad, and talked openly about the gains and losses of governing the country; Sima Qian, the minister of the Han Dynasty, was depressed and frustrated, and extensively narrated the rise and fall of history.
The past and present are the same, but I guess I can't compare with them.
I secretly thought that the tattoos on the leopard's skin were guilty of something, and I was convicted based on these tattoos.
From this point of view, it is not easy to talk about it.
So I stopped writing articles. It has been many years. I lacked Yang Pan's poems about Nanshan and Feng Yan's poems on the Weishui River. I had no works that I thought I could contribute to make everyone laugh and give me a small reward for my encouragement and rewards.
Moreover, his talent is contrary to his observation of the situation, and he does not intend to write a work that talks about mysteries and Taoism; the fact is that it is not the same as his promise in advance, and he would rather leave his fear in Zhu Hai.
Looking back at myself, I asked myself, gasping with fear.
But looking up at the vastness of the conversation, far away as if at the end of the world, a small heart separated from the nine clouds and passed away.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
殿下降情白屋，存问相寻，食椹怀音，矧伊人矣。
孝绰免职后，高祖数使仆射徐勉宣旨慰抚之，每朝宴常引与焉。
及高祖为《籍田诗》，又使勉先示孝绰。
时奉诏作者数十人，高祖以孝绰尤工，即日有敕，起为西中郎湘东王谘议。
启谢曰： 臣不能衔珠避颠，倾柯卫足，以兹疏幸，与物多忤。
兼逢匿怨之友，遂居司隶之官，交构是非，用成萋斐。
日月昭回，俯明枉直。
狱书每御，辄鉴蒋济之冤；炙发见明，非关陈正之辩。
遂漏斯密网，免彼严棘，得使还同士伍，比屋唐民，生死肉骨，岂侔其施。
臣诚无识，孰不戴天。
疏远亩陇，绝望高阙，而降其接引，优以旨喻，于臣微物，足为荣陨。
况刚条落叶，忽沾云露；周行所置，复齿盛流。
但雕朽杇粪，徒成延奖；捕影系风，终无效答。
又启谢东宫曰： 臣闻之，先圣以 众恶之，必察焉；众好之，必察焉 。岂非孤特则积毁所归，比周则积誉斯信？
知好恶之间，必待明鉴。
故晏婴再为阿宰，而前毁后誉。
后誉出于阿意，前毁由于直道。
是以一犬所噬，旨酒贸其甘酸；一手所摇，嘉树变其生死。
又邹阳有言，士无贤愚，入朝见嫉。
至若臧文之下展季，靳尚之放灵均，绛侯之排贾生，平津之陷主父，自兹厥后，其徒实繁。
曲笔短辞，不暇殚述，寸管所窥，常由切齿。
殿下诲道观书，俯同好学，前载枉直，备该神览。
translation: 
His Highness has brought friendship to the house of a commoner like me, constantly caring and asking questions. Flying swans eating mulberries can change bad sounds into good ones, let alone people.
After Xiaochuo was dismissed, Emperor Gaozu sent his servant Xu Mian many times to appease him, and he was often invited to participate in every court banquet.
When Emperor Gaozu wrote "Poetry on Jitian", he asked Xu Mian to give it to Xiaochuo first.
At the same time, there were dozens of people who wrote poems in Shao. Emperor Gaozu thought that Xiao Chuo was the most exquisite in his writing, so he immediately issued an order to appoint him as Xizhong Lang to consult with the king of Xiangdong.
Xiao Chuo thanked me and said: I cannot hold a pearl in my hand to repay my kindness and avoid falling, nor can I cut off the branches and leaves to protect the foundation.
In addition, I met someone who hated me in his heart but was my friend on the surface. After he became an official of Sili, he framed me and made me guilty.
The sun and moon shine brightly, distinguishing right from wrong.
Every time His Majesty saw the documents in prison, he would immediately examine Jiang Jiban's unjust case; burning hair to determine right from wrong had nothing to do with Chen Zheng's eloquence.
I was finally able to escape from the secret network and avoid being imprisoned in that prison, so that I could return to the ranks of scholars, surrounded by the same residents as in Tang Yao's time. I was resurrected from the dead with bones and flesh, no need to ask for his charity.
I really don’t have any knowledge. No one can bear the burden of being born in this world.
Farming in a distant place cut off the hope of entering the palace. However, the imperial court issued an order to introduce me to me and gave me a special edict. For such a small person like me, it is an honor from heaven.
For example, the strong branches withered and fallen leaves are suddenly soaked with a lot of dew; the road is filled with small things and becomes prosperous and smooth again.
However, rotten wood and dung cannot be carved and whitewashed, so they are praised and rewarded in vain; it is difficult to gain anything from the photography system, and in the end there is no way to repay the gratitude.
He also thanked the crown prince and said: I heard that the sage said that if everyone hates him, he must be investigated; if everyone likes him, he must be investigated. Isn't it true that being aloof and special will lead to ruin by everyone, and forming cliques and pursuing selfish interests will make public reputation credible?
To know between good and evil, one must wait for a clear examination.
So Yan Ying was once again appointed as the governor of Adi, and those who had slandered him now praised him.
Later, the praise he received was due to flattery, while the previous slander was due to his straightforwardness.
So when a dog bites it, the wine changes its sweetness and sourness; when a hand shakes the tree, its health changes.
There are also rumors in Zou Yang that scholars, regardless of whether they are wise or foolish, will be jealous as soon as they enter the court.
As for people like Zang Wen who deposed Liu Xiahui, Jin Shang exiled Qu Yuan, Zhou Bo squeezed out Jia Yi, and Gongsun Hong framed his father Yan, there have been many such people since the time of the Han Dynasty.
I have no time to describe all the slanderous and slanderous words in my writing. What I see in my writing often makes me gnash my teeth with hatred.
His Highness teaches and reads books, and is eager to learn. He carefully reads all the injustices and injustices recorded by his predecessors.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
臣昔因立侍，亲承绪言，飘风贝锦，譬彼谗慝，圣旨殷勤，深以为叹。
臣资愚履直，不能杜渐防微，曾未几何，逢訧罹难。
虽吹毛洗垢，在朝而同嗟；而严文峻法，肆奸其必奏。
不顾卖友，志欲要君，自非上帝运超己之光，昭陵阳之虐，舞文虚谤，不取信于宸明，在缧婴纆，幸得蠲于庸暗。
裁下免黜之书，仍颁朝会之旨。
小人未识通方，絷马悬车，息绝朝觐。
方愿灭影销声，遂移林谷。
不悟天听罔已，造次必彰，不以距违见疵，复使引籍云陛。
降宽和之色，垂布帛之言，形之千载，所蒙已厚；况乃恩等特召，荣同起家，望古自惟，弥觉多忝。
但未渝丹石，永藏轮轨，相彼工言，构兹媒諓。
且款冬而生，已凋柯叶，空延德泽，无谢阳春。
后为太子仆，母忧去职。
服阕，除安西湘东王谘议参军，迁黄门侍郎，尚书吏部郎，坐受人绢一束，为饷者所讼，左迁信威临贺王长史。
顷之，迁秘书监。
大同五年，卒官，时年五十九。
孝绰少有盛名，而仗气负才，多所陵忽，有不合意，极言诋訾。
领军臧盾、太府卿沈僧杲等，并被时遇，孝绰尤轻之。
每于朝集会同处，公卿间无所与语，反呼驺卒访道途间事，由此多忤于物。
孝绰辞藻为后进所宗，世重其文，每作一篇，朝成暮遍，好事者咸讽诵传写，流闻绝域。
文集数十万言，行于世。
translation: 
In the past, I stood by my side and personally accepted the preface. The sudden wind made false accusations against others, and I understood that they were evil people with malicious words and evil intentions. The imperial edict was thoughtful and thoughtful, which made people deeply sigh.
The ministers were stupid in nature and upright in their conduct, and could not take precautions against the slightest mistake. It didn't take long before they were criticized and suffered disasters.
Although the fur was blown away to wash away the dirt, the people in the court lamented it; however, the harsh laws and stern laws will definitely report to those who do evil.
Regardless of betraying friends, the purpose is to threaten the monarch. It is God who uses his own light to reveal the tyranny of Lingyang. People who use pen and ink to slander cannot be trusted by the wise monarch. Sinners who are tied up with ropes in prison are fortunately pardoned in mediocrity.
After issuing an imperial edict exempting him from deposing, he also issued an imperial edict to attend the court meeting.
The villain did not know the art of Taoism, but tied his horse and stopped the carriage, refusing to go to the emperor.
He was hoping to disappear, so he moved to the forest valley.
If you don't realize that the monarch's hearing and hearing are infinite, you must make it clear in a hurry, and don't be criticized for violating the edict, and let the envoys guide you into the court.
You gave me a kind and gentle face, and left words as soft as cloth, showing a rare opportunity, and the favor you received is already very rich; not to mention that the favor you gave is equivalent to a special call, and the honor you receive is equivalent to starting a job. Looking up to the ancients and thinking about it myself, I feel a lot of shame.
But he has not changed his sincerity and determination, and has always hidden his wheels. However, observing his sweet words, he is still creating slanderous words to frame others.
Moreover, it was born in the middle of winter, and its branches and leaves have withered away. The kindness and kindness we have received are in vain, and there is no way to repay the spring.
Later, he served as a servant of the prince and resigned after his mother died.
After the mourning period was over, he was appointed King Shu of Anxi Xiang to join the army. He was moved to the post of Minister of Huangmen and Minister of Libu. Because he accepted a bunch of silk as a gift from others, the person who received the gift sued and was demoted to the post of King Xinwei.
Soon, he was moved to the position of Secretary Supervisor.
In the fifth year of Datong, he died in office at the age of fifty-nine.
Xiaochuo was famous when he was young, but he relied on his talent and learning to be willful, bully and scornful of others, and exaggerated and slandered those he didn't like.
The leader Xian Dun, Taifu Qing Shen Sendai and others were all appreciated by the monarch, but Xiao Chuo especially despised them.
Whenever there were gatherings in the court, there was no one among the ministers with whom he could talk. Instead, he called his servants to inquire about rumors on the road, thus offending many people.
Xiaochuo's rhetoric was highly praised and imitated by later generations. People in the world valued his articles very much. Every time he wrote an article, it would be circulated in the morning and evening. People who did good things would recite and write about it, and the article could spread to far away areas.
The collection contains hundreds of thousands of words and has been circulated throughout the world.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
孝绰兄弟及群从诸子侄，当时有七十人，并能属文，近古未之有也。
其三妹适琅邪王叔英、吴郡张嵊、东海徐悱，并有才学；悱妻文尤清拔。
悱，仆射徐勉子，为晋安郡，卒，丧还京师，妻为祭文，辞甚忄妻怆。
勉本欲为哀文，既睹此文，于是阁笔。
孝绰子谅，字求信。
少好学，有文才，尤博悉晋代故事，时人号曰 皮里晋书 。
历官著作佐郎，太子舍人，王府主簿，功曹史，中城王记室参军。
王筠，字元礼，一字德柔，琅邪临沂人。
祖僧虔，齐司空简穆公。
父楫，太中大夫。
筠幼警寤，七岁能属文。
年十六，为《芍药赋》，甚美。
及长，清静好学，与从兄泰齐名。
陈郡谢览，览弟举，亦有重誉，时人为之语曰： 谢有览举，王有养炬。
炬是泰，养即筠，并小字也。
起家中军临川王行参军，迁太子舍人，除尚书殿中郎。
王氏过江以来，未有居郎署者，或劝逡巡不就，筠曰： 陆平原东南之秀，王文度独步江东，吾得比踪昔人，何所多恨。
乃欣然就职。
尚书令沈约，当世辞宗，每见筠文，咨嗟吟咏，以为不逮也。
尝谓筠： 昔蔡伯喈见王仲宣称曰： 王公之孙也，吾家书籍，悉当相与。 仆虽不敏，请附斯言。
自谢朓诸贤零落已后，平生意好，殆将都绝，不谓疲暮，复逢于君。
约于郊居宅造阁斋，筠为草木十咏，书之于壁，皆直写文词，不加篇题。
约谓人云： 此诗指物呈形，无假题署。
约制《郊居赋》，构思积时，犹未都毕，乃要筠示其草，筠读至 雌霓连蜷 ，约抚掌欣抃曰： 仆尝恐人呼为霓。
次至 坠石磓星 ，及 冰悬坎而带坻 。筠皆击节称赞。
约曰： 知音者希，真赏殆绝，所以相要，政在此数句耳。
筠又尝为诗呈约，即报书云： 览所示诗，实为丽则，声和被纸，光影盈字。
夔、牙接响，顾有余惭；孔翠群翔，岂不多愧。
古情拙目，每伫新奇，烂然总至，权舆已尽。
会昌昭发，兰挥玉振，克谐之义，宁比笙簧。
思力所该，一至乎此，叹服吟研，周流忘念。
昔时幼壮，颇爱斯文，含咀之间，倏焉疲暮。
不及后进，诚非一人，擅美推能，实归吾子。
迟比闲日，清觏乃申。
筠为文能压强韵，每公宴并作，辞必妍美。
translation: 
There were seventy people at that time, including the brothers Xiaochuo and their nephews, all of whom were capable of writing articles. There was no such thing in modern times.
His three younger sisters were married to Wang Shuying from Langxie, Zhang Sheng from Wujun, and Xu Qiu from Donghai. They were all talented and learned; Xu Qiu's wife was particularly elegant and refined in her diction.
Xu Qiu, the son of Pushe Xu Mian, served as the prefect of Jin'an County. After his death, his body was returned to the capital, and his wife wrote a memorial for him. The words were extremely sad.
Xu Mian wanted to write a memorial for his son, but when he saw her memorial, he stopped writing.
A filial son is forgiving, and the word asks for trust.
When he was young, he was studious and talented in literature. He was especially knowledgeable about the allusions of Zhifu. People at that time called him "Shu Zhi Shu".
He successively held the posts of Zuo Lang, Prince Sheren, Chief Registrar of the Prince's Palace, History of Gong Cao, and joined the army in Xuancheng Wang Ji's Office.
Wang Jun, also named Yuanli and Derou, was from Linyi, Langxie.
His grandfather's name was Jianglu, and he once served as Duke of Kong Gelong, Sikong of Manqu.
His father's name was Dan, and he served as Taizhong doctor.
Wang Jun was agile and intelligent when he was young and could write articles at the age of seven.
When he was sixteen years old, he wrote "Ode to Peony Root", which is extremely beautiful.
When he grew up, he had a pure and peaceful mind, liked to study, and was as famous as his cousin Wang Tai.
Xie Lan, a native of Chen County, and Xie Lan, Xie Lan's younger brother, also had a very high reputation. Therefore, people at the time said: "Thank you for Lan Ju, and the king has a torch."
Ju is Tai and Yang is Jun, both of whom are nicknames.
He started his career and joined the army as King Xing of Linchuan of the Chinese Army. He was moved to the position of Prince Sheren and was appointed as the Zhonglang of the Shangshu Palace.
Since the Wang family crossed the Yangtze River, no one has been appointed to the official position of Lang. Some people advised him to retreat and not take up the post. Wang Jun said: Lu Ji is an outstanding talent in the southeast, and Wang Tanzhi is a unique talent in Jiangdong. I can keep pace with the past, so there is no need to have too much resentment.
So I happily took up my job.
Shangshu Ling Shen Yue was respected by the world as Ci Zong. Whenever he saw Wang Jun's articles, he would praise and recite them, thinking that he was not as good as himself.
He once said to Wang Jun: In the past, when I saw Wang Zheng in the tomb, he praised him and said, "You are the grandson of the prince. All my books are given to you. Although I am not smart, please give me a sentence."
Since the death of all the wise men Xie Tiao, almost all of my close friends have disappeared. I never expected that I would meet you again in my old age.
He selected music and built a pavilion in his suburban residence. He composed ten poems about vegetation on the jade canopy and wrote them on the wall. They were written directly without titles.
Xuan Diao said to people: These poems point out things and describe their shapes, and there is no need to borrow titles to explain them.
This preliminary work, "Ode to a Suburban Residence", had been conceived for a long time but could not be completed, so Wang Su was invited to show him the draft. When Wang Crab read "feni", which is pronounced as "five excitations and reverses", the school clapped his hands happily and said, "I was worried that people would pronounce "ni" as five pieces of reverses.
He also read "The Stone Hammer Star Falls" and "The Ice Hangs Over the Ridge with Dips", Wang Yun praised them.
Shen Yue said: There are few close friends, and there are almost no people who can really appreciate poetry. The reason why I invite you to recite poetry is based on these lines.
Wang Jun once wrote a poem and submitted it to the interviewer. He immediately wrote back and said: The poem shown is indeed gorgeous and elegant. The rhythm of the poem covers the paper, and the scenery fills the lines.
The music of Kui and Zhi Xia comes one after another, but it is still ashamed compared with your poems; the flocks of sparrows and kingfishers flying in the sky, don't they feel a lot of shame?
The nostalgia for the past is short-sighted, and whenever new and unique thoughts are accumulated, bright and brilliant thoughts come together, but they are all used up as soon as they begin.
The society will be prosperous and glorious, and the capable people will be inspiring and promising. The meaning of harmony can be compared to the sheng and the reed.
My thinking ability is complete and rich, to the point where I can admire it and read it thoroughly, forgetting distracting thoughts.
When I was young and healthy, I liked this kind of words very much. As I savored them, I suddenly reached an old age.
Not as good as the younger generation, there is indeed more than one person, the reputation can only be enjoyed by recommendation, and it really belongs to you.
Slowly wait until you have free time, and then the masterpieces can be restored.
Wang Jun writes poems using uncommon rhymes. Every time they write together at a public banquet, his words must be very beautiful.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
约常从容启高祖曰： 晚来名家，唯见王筠独步。
累迁太子洗马，中舍人，并掌东宫管记。
昭明太子爱文学士，常与筠及刘孝绰、陆倕、到洽、殷芸等游宴玄圃，太子独执筠袖抚孝绰肩而言曰： 所谓左把浮丘袖，右拍洪崖肩。
其见重如此。
筠又与殷芸以方雅见礼焉。
出为丹阳尹丞、北中郎谘议参军，迁中书郎。
奉敕制《开善寺宝志大师碑文》，词甚丽逸。
又敕撰《中书表奏》三十卷，及所上赋颂，都为一集。
俄兼宁远湘东王长史，行府、国、郡事。
除太子家令，复掌管记。
普通元年，以母忧去职。
筠有孝性，毁瘠过礼，服阕后，疾废久之。
六年，除尚书吏部郎，迁太子中庶子，领羽林监，又改领步兵。
中大通二年，迁司徒左长史。
三年，昭明太子薨，敕为哀策文，复见嗟赏。
寻出为贞威将军、临海太守，在郡被讼，不调累年。
大同初，起为云麾豫章王长史，迁秘书监。
五年，除太府卿。
明年，迁度支尚书。
中大同元年，出为明威将军、永嘉太守，以疾固辞，徙为光禄大夫，俄迁云骑将军、司徒左长史。
太清二年，侯景寇逼，筠时不入城。
明年，太宗即位，为太子詹事。
筠旧宅先为贼所焚，乃寓居国子祭酒萧子云宅，夜忽有盗攻之，惊惧坠井卒，时年六十九。
家人十余人同遇害。
筠状貌寝小，长不满六尺。
性弘厚，不以艺能高人，而少擅才名，与刘孝绰见重当世。
其自序曰： 余少好书，老而弥笃。虽偶见瞥观，皆即疏记，后重省览，欢兴弥深，习与性成，不觉笔倦。
自年十三四，齐建武二年乙亥至梁大同六年，四十载矣。
translation: 
Shen Yuechang calmly reported to Emperor Gaozu: "Among the late famous masters, Wang Jun is unique."
Lei Jing was promoted to Prince Xi Ma, Zhong She Ren, and was in charge of the palace management records.
Prince Zhaoming liked people with literary talents. He often had a banquet with Wang Jun, Liu Xiaochuo, Lu Bian, Dao Qia, Yin Yun and others in Xuanpu. Taiyu only took Wang Jun's sleeve and touched Xiaochuo's shoulder and said: "Cultivation is called a floating Qiu sleeve on the left, and a pat on Hongya shoulder with the right."
He was pushed like this.
Wang Jun and Yin Yun were treated politely because of their upright elegance in poetry and prose.
He served as Danyang Yin Cheng and Beizhong Lang to consult on joining the army, and moved to Zhongshu Lang.
The "Inscription on Master Shizhi of Kaishan Temple" was commissioned to be written, and the words are extremely gorgeous and elegant.
He also ordered the compilation of thirty volumes of Zhongshu Biaozuo, as well as the poems and poems written on them, and compiled them into one volume.
Soon he concurrently served as the chief historian of Ningyuan Xiangshu King, responsible for the affairs of the government, vassal state and county.
He was appointed as the prince's family order and resumed the record of taking charge.
In the first year of the ordinary year, his mother died and left her job.
Wang Jun was very filial to his mother, and he went beyond the usual rituals in mourning. He lost weight due to excessive grief. After the period of mourning was over, he became ill for a long time.
In the sixth year, he was appointed Shangshu Libulang, moved to the position of Prince's concubine, led Yulin Supervisor, and was changed to lead infantry.
In the second year of Zhongdatong, he was moved to the post of Situ Zuo Changshi.
Three years later, Prince Zhaoming passed away, and Wang Jun was ordered to write a mourning poem, which was praised and appreciated by people.
Soon he was appointed General Zhenwei and Prefect of Linhai. He was sued in the county and his position was not promoted for several years.
In the early years of Datong, he was appointed as Yunzhang Wang Changshi and moved to secretary supervisor.
In five years, he was awarded the title of Taifuqing.
The following year, he was moved to the post of Duzhi Shangshu.
In the first year of Zhongdatong, he served as General Mingwei and Prefect of Yongjia. He resolutely resigned due to illness and was transferred to Dr. Guanglu. Soon after, he was appointed General Yunqi and Situ Zuo Changshi.
In the second year of Taiqing, Hou Jing invaded the capital, but Wang Jun did not enter the city at that time.
The following year, Taizong ascended the throne and appointed Prince Zhan Shi.
Wang Jun's old house was burned down by thieves before, so he stayed at Xiao Ziyun's house, the home of Guozi Jijiu. Suddenly, thieves attacked the house at night. Wang Jun was frightened and fell into a well and died. He was sixty-nine years old.
More than ten members of his family were killed at the same time.
Wang Zheng is ugly and small, less than six feet tall.
He has a generous and loyal temperament and does not stand out from others because of his skills. However, he was famous for his talents at a young age and was highly respected by the world like Liu Xiaochuo.
He wrote in the preface: When I was young, I loved reading, but when I got older, I became more attentive. Although I only read it occasionally, I also took notes on it. When I read it again later, I felt more joyful. My habits and temperament have been developed, and I don't feel tired of using the pen.
From the age of thirteen or fourteen, that is, Yihai, the second year of Jianwu in the Qi Dynasty, to the sixth year of Datong in the Liang Dynasty, forty-six years have passed.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
幼年读《五经》，皆七八十遍。
爱《左氏春秋》，吟讽常为口实，广略去取，凡三过五抄。
余经及《周官》、《仪礼》、《国语》、《尔雅》、《山海经》、《本草》并再抄。
子史诸集皆一遍。
未尝倩人假手，并躬自抄录，大小百余卷。
不足传之好事，盖以备遗忘而已。
又与诸儿书论家世集云： 史传称安平崔氏及汝南应氏，并累世有文才，所以范蔚宗云崔氏 世擅雕龙 。
然不过父子两三世耳；非有七叶之中，名德重光，爵位相继，人人有集，如吾门世者也。
沈少傅约语人云： 吾少好百家之言，身为四代之史，自开辟已来，未有爵位蝉联，文才相继，如王氏之盛者也。 汝等仰观堂构，思各努力。
筠自撰其文章，以一官为一集，自洗马、中书、中庶子、吏部佐、临海、太府各十卷，《尚书》三十卷，凡一百卷，行于世。
史臣陈吏部尚书姚察曰：王僧孺之巨学，刘孝绰之词藻，主非不好也，才非不用也，其拾青紫，取极贵，何难哉！
而孝绰不拘言行，自踬身名，徒郁抑当年，非不遇也。
translation: 
When I was young, I read the Five Classics seventy or eighty times.
I love Zuo's Spring and Autumn Annals. It has become a subject of frequent discussion and recitation. I read it widely and copied it every three times.
The rest of the classics, as well as "Zhou Guan", "Yili", "Guoyu", "Erya", "Shan Hai Jing" and "Compendium of Materia Medica" were all copied twice.
I have copied all the collections of Zishi.
I copied them all by myself without the help of others, and they are more than a hundred volumes in size.
It is not worth passing on to people who do good things, just use it to prepare for forgetting.
In his letter to Zhuer, he discussed the family history collection and said: Historical biographies say that Cui Ya from Anping and Chen Ya from Tumu were both talented people in the past dynasties, so Lan Zhui said that Cui Dan has been carving dragons for generations.
However, it is only two or three generations of father and son. There is no one in the seven generations whose fame and virtues have been gloriously inherited, whose titles have been successively inherited, and everyone has a collection of works, like my family.
Young Fu Xuan said to people: When I was young, I was fond of the opinions of hundreds of schools of thought, and personally compiled the history books of the four dynasties. Since the founding of the country, no title has been consecutively retained, and there has been an endless stream of people with literary talents. For those who are as prosperous as the Wang family, you must look up to the achievements of your ancestors and think about your own efforts.
Wang Jun compiled his own collection of articles, taking articles written by any official as a collection, from Xima, Zhongshulang, Zhongshuzi, Libulang, Zuozuo, Zuotu to the Taifuqing, each in ten volumes, and Duzhi Shangshu in thirty volumes, a total of one hundred volumes, which were circulated in the world.
Chen Libu, a historian, wrote in writing: "It's not that the monarch doesn't like Wang Sengweng's Hongxue scholarship and Liu Taobao's gorgeous rhetoric, and it's not that they don't use their talents. They put on the clothes of noble officials and achieved extremely important positions. What's the difficulty?"
However, Xiaochuo did not restrain his words and deeds, and caused his status and reputation to be humiliated. He was depressed and depressed in vain, which was not unkind.


