Chunk 0: 
original: 
范雎者，魏人也，字叔。游说诸侯，欲事魏王，家贫无以自资，乃先事魏中大夫须贾。
须贾为魏昭王使於齐，范雎从。
留数月，未得报。
齐襄王闻雎辩口，乃使人赐雎金十斤及牛酒，雎辞谢不敢受。
须贾知之，大怒，以为雎持魏国阴事告齐，故得此馈，令雎受其牛酒，还其金。
既归，心怒雎，以告魏相。
魏相，魏之诸公子，曰魏齐。
魏齐大怒，使舍人笞击雎，折胁摺齿。
雎详死，即卷以箦，置厕中。
宾客饮者醉，更溺雎，故僇辱以惩後，令无妄言者。
雎从箦中谓守者曰： 公能出我，我必厚谢公。
守者乃请出弃箦中死人。
魏齐醉，曰： 可矣。
范雎得出。
後魏齐悔，复召求之。
魏人郑安平闻之，乃遂操范雎亡，伏匿，更名姓曰张禄。
当此时，秦昭王使谒者王稽於魏。
郑安平诈为卒，侍王稽。
王稽问： 魏有贤人可与俱西游者乎？
郑安平曰： 臣里中有张禄先生，欲见君，言天下事。
其人有仇，不敢昼见。
王稽曰： 夜与俱来。
郑安平夜与张禄见王稽。
语未究，王稽知范雎贤，谓曰： 先生待我於三亭之南。
与私约而去。
王稽辞魏去，过载范雎入秦。
至湖，望见车骑从西来。
范雎曰： 彼来者为谁？
王稽曰： 秦相穰侯东行县邑。
范雎曰： 吾闻穰侯专秦权，恶内诸侯客，此恐辱我，我宁且匿车中。
有顷，穰侯果至，劳王稽，因立车而语曰： 关东有何变？
曰： 无有。
又谓王稽曰： 谒君得无与诸侯客子俱来乎？
translation: 
He lobbied the princes and wanted to serve the king of Wei, but his family was very poor and had no way to raise funds, so he first went to serve Xu Jia, a senior official in the state of Wei.
Once, Xu Jia went to Qi State as an envoy for King Zhao of Wei, and Fan Ju also went with him.
They stayed in Qi for several months, but were unable to complete their mission.
At that time, King Qi Xiang learned that Fan Ju was very eloquent, so he sent a special person to give Fan Ju gifts such as ten pounds of gold, beef and wine, but Fan Ju repeatedly refused and did not dare to accept.
When Xu Jia found out about this, he was very angry. He thought that Fan Ju must have sold the secrets he knew about Wei to Qi, so he got such a gift. So he asked Fan Ju to accept food such as beef, wine, and return the gold.
After returning to the state of Wei, Xu Jia was angry and jealous of Fan Ju, so he reported the matter to the prime minister of the state of Wei.
The prime minister of Wei State is one of the sons of Wei State, named Wei Qi.
Wei Qi was furious after hearing this, and ordered his ministers to beat Fan Ju with boards and thorns, breaking Fan Ju's ribs and teeth.
At that time, Fan Ju pretended to be dead, so Wei Qi sent someone to roll him up in a mat and threw him in the toilet.
He also made the guests at the banquet drunk and took turns urinating on Fan Ju, deliberately humiliating him to punish the police and prevent people from revealing state secrets.
Fan Ju, who was wrapped in the mat, said to the guard: "If you let me go, I will thank you very much in the future."
The guard wanted to let Fan Ju go, so he asked Wei Qi for instructions to throw the dead people out of the mat.
Wei Qi was already very drunk at this time, so he agreed smoothly and said: "Okay."
Fan Ju was able to escape.
Later Wei Qi regretted it and sent people to search for Fan Ju again.
Zheng Anping, a native of Wei, heard about this, so he ran away with Fan Ju. They hid, and Fan Ju changed his name to Zhang Lu.
At this time, King Zhao of Qin sent his envoy Wang Jizheng to Wei.
Zheng Anping pretended to be a servant and served Wang Ji.
Wang Ji asked him: "Would any of the talented people in Wei State be willing to travel with me to the Qin State in the west?"
Zheng Anping replied: There is a Mr. Zhang Lu in my hometown who would like to see you and discuss world affairs with you.
However, he has enemies and dare not come out to meet you during the day.
Wang Ji said: You should come with him at night.
Zheng Anping brought Zhang Lu to visit Wang Ji at night.
Before the two of them finished talking, Wang Ji realized that Fan Ju was a talented person, so he said to him: Sir, please wait for me south of Santang Gang.
Fan Ju and Wang Ji made a private appointment to meet and left.
After Wang Ji said goodbye to Wei and went on the road, when he passed the south of Sanding Gang, he loaded up Fan Ju and quickly entered the border of Qin.
When the car arrived at Huyi, we saw a group of carriages and horses galloping from the west.
Fan Ju asked: "Who is coming over there?"
Wang Ji replied: That was when Ranghou, the Prime Minister of Qin State, went to the east to inspect the counties and cities.
As soon as Fan Ju heard that it was Ranghou, he said: I heard that Ranghou has monopolized the power of the Qin State. He hates accepting lobbyists from various countries. I am afraid that such a meeting will insult me. I would rather hide in the car for a while.
After a while, Marquis Rang arrived as expected. After greeting Wang Ji, he stopped the car and asked, "How has the situation in Guandong changed?"
Wang Ji replied: No.
Marquis Rang said to Wang Ji again: "Isn't it possible that the envoy came to Qin with the lobbyists from the princes?"


Chunk 1: 
original: 
无益，徒乱人国耳。
王稽曰： 不敢。
即别去。
范雎曰： 吾闻穰侯智士也，其见事迟，乡者疑车中有人，忘索之。
於是范雎下车走，曰： 此必悔之。
行十馀里，果使骑还索车中，无客，乃已。
王稽遂与范雎入咸阳。
已报使，因言曰： 魏有张禄先生，天下辩士也。
曰 秦王之国危於累卵，得臣则安。然不可以书传也 。
臣故载来。 秦王弗信，使舍食草具。
待命岁馀。当是时，昭王已立三十六年。
南拔楚之鄢郢，楚怀王幽死於秦。
秦东破齐。
湣王尝称帝，後去之。
数困三晋。厌天下辩士，无所信。
穰侯，华阳君，昭王母宣太后之弟也；而泾阳君、高陵君皆昭王同母弟也。
穰侯相，三人者更将，有封邑，以太后故，私家富重於王室。
及穰侯为秦将，且欲越韩、魏而伐齐纲寿，欲以广其陶封。
范雎乃上书曰：
臣闻明主立政，有功者不得不赏，有能者不得不官，劳大者其禄厚，功多者其爵尊，能治众者其官大。
故无能者不敢当职焉，有能者亦不得蔽隐。
使以臣之言为可，原行而益利其道；以臣之言为不可，久留臣无为也。
语曰： 庸主赏所爱而罚所恶；明主则不然，赏必加於有功，而刑必断於有罪。
今臣之胸不足以当椹质，而要不足以待斧钺，岂敢以疑事尝试於王哉！
translation: 
Such people are not good to Qin and will only disturb other people's countries.
Wang Ji quickly replied: "I don't dare."
The two then said goodbye and left.
Fan Ju said to Wang Ji: I heard that Ranghou is a wise man and has many doubts about how to deal with things. Just now he suspected that there was someone hiding in the car, but he forgot to search it.
So Fan Ju jumped out of the car and walked on foot, saying: "Ranghou will not let this matter go. He will regret not searching the car."
After walking for about ten miles, Marquis Rang sent cavalry to chase and search the car. No one was found, so he gave up.
Wang Ji then entered Xianyang City with Fan Ju.
After Wang Ji reported the envoy situation to the King of Qin, he took the opportunity to say: There is a Mr. Zhang Lu in Wei State. This man is a rare eloquent person in the world.
He said that King Qin's country is in danger, just like stacking eggs one on top of another. If King Qin can get and reuse me, it will make the country safe.
But he needed to be interviewed in person and could not be conveyed by letter, so I brought him to Qin. The King of Qin did not believe what Fan Ju said, so he only let Fan Ju live in a guest house and gave him poor food.
In this way, Fan Ju waited for more than a year to be received by King Qin. At that time, King Qin Zhao had been on the throne for thirty-six years.
The State of Qin captured the important towns of Yan and Ying of the State of Chu in the south. King Huai of Chu was imprisoned in the State of Qin and finally died in the State of Qin.
He conquered Qi in the east.
Previously, King Qi Min once called himself the Eastern Emperor, but soon canceled this title.
Qin also besieged Han, Zhao and Wei many times and expanded its territory. King Zhao of Qin was a man of great martial arts, so he hated those lobbyists and did not believe what they said.
Ranghou and Huayangjun are the younger brothers of King Zhao's mother, Queen Mother Xuan, while Lord Jingyang and Lord Gaoling are both brothers of King Zhao.
Marquis Rang served as the prime minister, and Lord Huayang, Lord Jingyang, and Lord Gaoling served as generals. They all had their own fiefdoms. Due to the protection of Queen Mother Xuan, their private wealth even exceeded that of the country.
When Ranghou became the general of Qin, he wanted to cross Korea and Wei to attack Gangyi and Shouyi of Qi, hoping to expand his Taoyi fiefdom.
For this reason, Fan Ju wrote to the King of Qin and said:
I heard that when a sage monarch carries out administrative affairs, he must not fail to reward those who have meritorious service, and he must not refrain from granting official positions to those who are talented. Those who have made great contributions will have generous salaries, those who have made many achievements will have high titles, and those who can manage many affairs will have high official positions.
Therefore, people with insufficient ability dare not take up official positions, and those with talent will not be buried.
If your Majesty thinks that my words are applicable, I hope you will implement and further realize this idea; if you think that my words are not applicable, then there is no point in keeping me in Qin for a long time.
As the saying goes: A mediocre monarch rewards those he loves and punishes those he dislikes; this is not the case with a wise monarch. Rewards must be given to those who have meritorious service, and punishments must be imposed on guilty people.
Now my chest cannot withstand the guillotine and chopping board, and my waist cannot withstand the chopping of an axe. How dare I test the king with baseless and uncertain claims?


Chunk 2: 
original: 
虽以臣为贱人而轻辱，独不重任臣者之无反复於王邪？
且臣闻周有砥砨，宋有结绿，梁有县藜，楚有和朴，此四宝者，土之所生，良工之所失也，而为天下名器。
然则圣王之所弃者，独不足以厚国家乎？
臣闻善厚家者取之於国，善厚国者取之於诸侯。
天下有明主则诸侯不得擅厚者，何也？
为其割荣也。
良医知病人之死生，而圣主明於成败之事，利则行之，害则舍之，疑则少尝之，虽舜禹复生，弗能改已。
语之至者，臣不敢载之於书，其浅者又不足听也。
意者臣愚而不概於王心邪？
亡其言臣者贱而不可用乎？
自非然者，臣原得少赐游观之间，望见颜色。
一语无效，请伏斧质。
於是秦昭王大说，乃谢王稽，使以传车召范雎。
於是范雎乃得见於离宫，详为不知永巷而入其中。
王来而宦者怒，逐之，曰： 王至！
范雎缪为曰： 秦安得王？
秦独有太后、穰侯耳。
欲以感怒昭王。
昭王至，闻其与宦者争言，遂延迎，谢曰： 寡人宜以身受命久矣，会义渠之事急，寡人旦暮自请太后；今义渠之事已，寡人乃得受命。
窃闵然不敏，敬执宾主之礼。
范雎辞让。
是日观范雎之见者，群臣莫不洒然变色易容者。
秦王屏左右，宫中虚无人。
秦王跽而请曰： 先生何以幸教寡人？
范雎曰： 唯唯。
有间，秦王复跽而请曰： 先生何以幸教寡人？ 范雎曰： 唯唯。
若是者三。
秦王跽曰： 先生卒不幸教寡人邪？
范雎曰： 非敢然也。
臣闻昔者吕尚之遇文王也，身为渔父而钓於渭滨耳。
若是者，交疏也。
已说而立为太师，载与俱归者，其言深也。
故文王遂收功於吕尚而卒王天下。
乡使文王疏吕尚而不与深言，是周无天子之德，而文武无与成其王业也。
translation: 
Even if you think that I am of low status and treat me with contempt and insult, don't you think that the person who recommended me to you will never have a repeated attitude towards the king?
Moreover, I have heard that the Zhou Dynasty has a pottery, the Song Dynasty has a knot, the Wei Dynasty has a county quinoa, and the Chu Dynasty has a Heshi jade. These four gems were produced in the soil, but famous craftsmen mistakenly thought they were stones, but they eventually became precious artifacts in the world.
If this is the case, then can’t the people abandoned by the wise monarch make the country strong?
I heard that officials who are good at lining their own pockets take profits from the vassal states; princes who are good at making a country rich take profits from other vassal states.
But if there is a wise monarch in the world, then the princes will not be able to be strong and prosperous on their own. What is the reason?
Because they will cut down the country and exalt themselves.
A wise doctor can know the life and death of his patients, and a wise monarch can discern the success or failure of state affairs. He will carry out what he thinks is beneficial to the country, discard what is harmful, and experiment a little if he has doubts. Even if Shun and Yu came back from the dead, they could not change this strategy.
I dare not write down the most profound words I want to say, and some superficial words are not worth listening to, Your Majesty.
I guess it's because I'm stupid and don't conform to the king's wishes, right?
Or is it that everyone who recommends me is a petty person who is not worth listening to?
If not, I hope you will give me some free time to visit and see you.
If what I say has no effect, let me suffer the death penalty.
After reading this letter, King Qin Zhao was very happy, so he expressed his gratitude to Wang Ji and summoned Fan Sui in a special carriage.
In this way, Fan Ju was able to go to the Li Palace to meet King Qin Zhao. When he arrived at the palace gate, he pretended not to know that it was the passage of the inner palace and walked in.
At this time, King Zhao of Qin happened to come out. The eunuch became angry and drove Fan Ju away, shouting: "The king is here!"
Fan Ju deliberately shouted: "Where is the king of Qin?"
The Qin State only had the Queen Mother and Marquis Rang.
He wanted to use these words to anger King Qin Zhao.
King Zhao came over and heard that Fan Ju was quarreling with the eunuch, so he stepped forward to greet Fan Ju and apologized to him: I should have asked you for advice a long time ago. It is very urgent to deal with the Yiqu incident. I have to ask the Queen Mother sooner or later. Now that the Yiqu incident has been dealt with, I have the opportunity to ask you for advice.
I am a very confused and unintelligent person, so let me salute you.
Fan Ju returned the gift politely.
On this day, every civil and military official who saw Fan Juye meeting King Zhao was in awe.
King Qin screened away the ministers and attendants on the left and right sides, and there was no one else in the palace.
The King of Qin knelt down and asked Fan Sui for advice: "Sir, how do you want to teach me?"
Fan Sui said: Yeah.
After a while, King Qin knelt down and asked Fan Sui again: "How do you want to teach me, sir?" Fan Sui said: Yeah.
Repeated like this three times.
The King of Qin knelt down and said to Fan Sui: Master, are you unwilling to teach me after all?
Fan Sui said: I dare not do this.
I heard people say that when Lu Shang met King Wen of Zhou, he was just a fisherman fishing on the Wei River.
At that time, their friendship was still distant.
After King Wen of Zhou heard what Lu Shang said, he immediately made him a grand master and took him back with him in a carriage. What they talked about became profound.
Therefore, King Wen of Zhou got help from Lu Shang and eventually became king of the world.
If King Wen of Zhou alienated Lu Shang and did not have in-depth conversations with Lu Shang, then the Zhou Dynasty would not have the virtue of an emperor, and King Wen and Wu of Zhou would have no one to assist them in their great achievements.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
今臣羁旅之臣也，交疏於王，而所原陈者皆匡君之事，处人骨肉之间，原效愚忠而未知王之心也。
此所以王三问而不敢对者也。
臣非有畏而不敢言也。
臣知今日言之於前而明日伏诛於後，然臣不敢避也。
大王信行臣之言，死不足以为臣患，亡不足以为臣忧，漆身为厉被发为狂不足以为臣耻。
且以五帝之圣焉而死，三王之仁焉而死，五伯之贤焉而死，乌获、任鄙之力焉而死，成荆、孟贲、王庆忌、夏育之勇焉而死。
死者，人之所必不免也。
处必然之势，可以少有补於秦，此臣之所大原也，臣又何患哉！
伍子胥橐载而出昭关，夜行昼伏，至於陵水，无以餬其口，行蒲伏，稽首肉袒，鼓腹吹篪，乞食於吴市，卒兴吴国，阖闾为伯。
使臣得尽谋如伍子胥，加之以幽囚，终身不复见，是臣之说行也，臣又何忧？
箕子、接舆漆身为厉，被发为狂，无益於主。
假使臣得同行於箕子，可以有补於所贤之主，是臣之大荣也，臣有何耻？
臣之所恐者，独恐臣死之後，天下见臣之尽忠而身死，因以是杜口裹足，莫肯乡秦耳。
足下上畏太后之严，下惑於奸臣之态，居深宫之中，不离阿保之手，终身迷惑，无与昭奸。
大者宗庙灭覆，小者身以孤危，此臣之所恐耳。
若夫穷辱之事，死亡之患，臣不敢畏也。
臣死而秦治，是臣死贤於生。
秦王跽曰： 先生是何言也！
夫秦国辟远，寡人愚不肖，先生乃幸辱至於此，是天以寡人慁先生而存先王之宗庙也。
寡人得受命於先生，是天所以幸先王，而不弃其孤也。
先生柰何而言若是！
事无小大，上及太后，下至大臣，原先生悉以教寡人，无疑寡人也。
translation: 
Now I am just a stranger living in another place, and my relationship with the king is very distant. But what I want to tell you are all the important things that help the king. I talk about the big things in the relationship between the king and his closest relatives. I want to show my stupid loyalty to you, but I don’t understand the true thoughts of the king.
This is why the king asked me three times but I did not dare to answer.
It’s not because I’m afraid of anything that I don’t dare to speak.
I know that after I speak in front of you today, I may be killed by your order tomorrow, but I dare not avoid this.
If the king can trust and implement the suggestions I have made, death will not be enough to worry me, exile will not be enough to distress me, and being covered in paint with sores and hair hanging down will not make me feel ashamed.
Moreover, sage emperors like the Five Emperors will also die, benevolent monarchs like the Three Kings will also die, virtuous monarchs like the Five Hegemons of the Spring and Autumn Period will also die, powerful warriors like Wu Huo and Ren Bi will also die, and brave people like Cheng Jing, Meng Bi, Wang Qingji, and Xia Yu will also die.
Death is inevitable for people.
Under inevitable circumstances, it is my greatest wish to be able to benefit Qin a little bit, so what do I have to worry about!
At that time, Wu Zixu escaped from Zhaoguan with a bag in his pocket. He dared to leave at night and hid during the day. After arriving at Lingshui, there was no food to satisfy his hunger, so he crawled forward on his knees, kowtowed to others with his upper body bare, played the flute with a bulging belly, and begged for food in the market of the state of Wu. In the end, he was able to prosper the state of Wu and made King Helu of Wu the overlord.
If I can be like Wu Zixu and be able to use my wisdom as much as I want, even if I am imprisoned and never see you again until my death, if my suggestions are implemented, what else do I have to worry about?
Jizi and Jieyu smeared their bodies with paint, covered their bodies with sores, let their hair hang loose, and pretended to be crazy, but this was not good for their monarch.
If I had the same experience as Jizi and pretended to be crazy, but it would be my greatest honor to be able to benefit the wise monarch I thought, what would I have to be ashamed of?
What I am worried about is that after I am killed, people in the world will see that I have given all my loyalty and will end up being killed, so I will shut my mouth, wrap my feet, and refuse to come to Qin.
On the one hand, you are afraid of the majesty of the Queen Mother, and on the other hand, you are confused by the treacherous ministers. You live in this deep palace and cannot do without the control of the ministers on your left and right. You have been confused all your life, and there is no one to help you identify the treacherous ministers.
Such a result will lead to the destruction of the country from a large perspective, and will put myself into an isolated and dangerous situation from a small perspective. This is something that I am afraid of.
I have never been afraid of things like being trapped, humiliated, or being killed.
If my death can bring great rule to Qin, then my death will be more meaningful than my life.
King Qin knelt down and said to Fan Sui: "Sir, what are you talking about?"
The State of Qin is located in a remote area and far away from the Central Plains. I am stupid and unpromising, but I am lucky enough to have my husband condescend to come to the State of Qin. This is God's blessing for me to trouble my husband to save the ancestral temple of the late king.
I can get the teachings from my husband. This is because God protected the late king and did not abandon the descendants he left behind.
Why would you, sir, say something like that?
No matter how big or small the matter is, from the queen mother to the minister, I hope you will teach me without reservation and don't doubt me anymore.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
范雎拜，秦王亦再拜
范雎曰： 大王之国，四塞以为固，北有甘泉、谷口，南带泾、渭，右陇、蜀，左关、阪，奋击百万，战车千乘，利则出攻，不利则入守，此王者之地也。
民怯於私斗而勇於公战，此王者之民也。
王并此二者而有之。
夫以秦卒之勇，车骑之众，以治诸侯，譬若施韩卢而搏蹇兔也，霸王之业可致也，而群臣莫当其位。
至今闭关十五年，不敢窥兵於山东者，是穰侯为秦谋不忠，而大王之计有所失也。 秦王跽曰： 寡人原闻失计。
然左右多窃听者，范雎恐，未敢言内，先言外事，以观秦王之俯仰。
因进曰： 夫穰侯越韩、魏而攻齐纲寿，非计也。
少出师则不足以伤齐，多出师则害於秦。
臣意王之计，欲少出师而悉韩、魏之兵也，则不义矣。
今见与国之不亲也，越人之国而攻，可乎？
其於计疏矣。
且昔齐湣王南攻楚，破军杀将，再辟地千里，而齐尺寸之地无得焉者，岂不欲得地哉，形势不能有也。
诸侯见齐之罢弊，君臣之不和也，兴兵而伐齐，大破之。
士辱兵顿，皆咎其王，曰： 谁为此计者乎？ 王曰： 文子为之。
大臣作乱，文子出走。
攻齐所以大破者，以其伐楚而肥韩、魏也。
此所谓借贼兵而赍盗粮者也。
王不如远交而近攻，得寸则王之寸也，得尺亦王之尺也。
今释此而远攻，不亦缪乎！
translation: 
Fan Sui bowed down and King Qin also bowed down.
Fan Ju said: Your Majesty's country is surrounded by solid fortresses. To the north are mountains with sweet springs and dangerous valley passes. To the south are the Jing and Wei Rivers. On the right are Longshan and Shudao. On the left are Hangu Pass and Miaoban Mountain. There are millions of troops and thousands of chariots. Attack when it is favorable and retreat when unfavorable. This is a good place to build a royal empire.
The people did not dare to fight over private matters, but bravely fought for the country. These were good people on which the royal family was established.
Now the king has both the favorable conditions of location and people.
With the bravery of Qin's soldiers and the large number of chariots and horses, it is as easy to subdue the princes as it is to release the strong Korean dogs to catch lame rabbits. It is completely possible to establish the overlord's cause, but none of your ministers are qualified.
The Qin State has been in seclusion for fifteen years now. The reason why it does not dare to wait for an opportunity to march east of Mount Wei is because Marquis Rang refuses to be loyal to the Qin State in making suggestions, and there are also mistakes in the king's plan. King Zhao of Qin knelt down and said: I am willing to hear about my mistakes.
However, Fan Ju found that there were many people eavesdropping around during the conversation, and he felt anxious and uneasy. He did not dare to talk about the Queen Mother's exclusive power within the palace, so he first talked about Marquis Rang's diplomatic strategy towards the vassal states, so as to observe the attitude of King Qin.
So he went to King Zhao and said: "Ranghou crosses Korea and Wei to attack Qi Guo Gangshou. This is not a good strategy."
Sending too few troops will not harm Qi, but sending too many troops will harm Qin itself.
I guess the king's strategy is to send fewer troops and let Han and Wei send all their troops to coordinate with Qin. This is also unreasonable.
Now that you have seen that these two friendly countries are not really friendly, you want to cross their borders to attack Qi. Is it feasible?
This is really not a thorough enough strategy.
Moreover, there has been a precedent for this kind of miscalculation. Previously, King Min of Qi attacked the Chu State in the south, killed the Chu army and generals, and opened up territory thousands of miles away. However, in the end, the State of Qi did not get even an inch of land. Did it not want to get the land? The situation forced it to impossible to occupy it.
When the various vassal states saw that Qi was exhausted and weakened, and that the monarch and his subjects were at odds, they sent troops to attack Qi and defeated it in one fell swoop.
The soldiers of Qi State were humiliated and defeated, and everyone blamed the King of Qi, saying: Who is planning to attack Chu State? King Qi said: Tian Wen planned it.
So the ministers of Qi launched a rebellion, and Tian Wen was forced to flee.
It can be seen that the reason for Qi's defeat was that it exhausted its troops to attack the distant Chu State, but Han and Wei gained huge profits from it.
This is called lending weapons to robbers and giving food to thieves.
Your Majesty, it is better to make friends with distant countries and attack the nearby countries. In this way, an inch of land captured becomes an inch of your land, and a foot of land captured becomes a foot of your land.
Isn’t it ridiculous to abandon nearby countries and attack distant countries?


Chunk 5: 
original: 
且昔者中山之国地方五百里，赵独吞之，功成名立而利附焉，天下莫之能害也。
今夫韩、魏，中国之处而天下之枢也，王其欲霸，必亲中国以为天下枢，以威楚、赵。
楚彊则附赵，赵彊则附楚，楚、赵皆附，齐必惧矣。
齐惧，必卑辞重币以事秦。
齐附而韩、魏因可虏也。
昭王曰： 吾欲亲魏久矣，而魏多变之国也，寡人不能亲。
请问亲魏柰何？
对曰： 王卑词重币以事之；不可，则割地而赂之；不可，因举兵而伐之。
王曰： 寡人敬闻命矣。
乃拜范雎为客卿，谋兵事。
卒听范雎谋，使五大夫绾伐魏，拔怀。
後二岁，拔邢丘。
客卿范雎复说昭王曰： 秦韩之地形，相错如绣。
秦之有韩也，譬如木之有蠹也，人之有心腹之病也。
天下无变则已，天下有变，其为秦患者孰大於韩乎？
王不如收韩。
昭王曰： 吾固欲收韩，韩不听，为之柰何？
对曰： 韩安得无听乎？
王下兵而攻荥阳，则巩、成皋之道不通；北断太行之道，则上党之师不下。
王一兴兵而攻荥阳，则其国断而为三。
夫韩见必亡，安得不听乎？
若韩听，而霸事因可虑矣。
王曰： 善。
且欲发使於韩。范雎日益亲，复说用数年矣，因请间说曰： 臣居山东时，闻齐之有田文，不闻其有王也；闻秦之有太后、穰侯、华阳、高陵、泾阳，不闻其有王也。
夫擅国之谓王，能利害之谓王，制杀生之威之谓王。
translation: 
Besides, in the past, the territory of Zhongshan State had a radius of 500 miles. Zhao State annexed it alone. With its achievements, its reputation was high, its benefits were obtained, and no one in the world could infringe upon it.
Now Korea and Wei are located in the Central Plains, which is the center of the world. If the king wants to dominate the world, he must first get close to the Central Plains countries and regard them as the key to controlling the world, so as to threaten Chu and Zhao.
If the state of Chu is strong, you will be close to the state of Zhao. If the state of Zhao is strong, you will be close to the state of Chu. If both the state of Chu and the state of Zhao are close to you, the state of Qi will definitely be afraid.
The state of Qi is afraid, so it will humbly offer generous gifts to serve the state of Qin.
If the state of Qi annexes the state of Qin, then Han and Wei will take advantage of the situation to conquer it.
King Zhao said: I have long wanted to get close to the state of Wei, but the state of Wei is an ever-changing country, and I cannot get close to it.
How can I get close to Wei?
Fan Ju replied: Your Majesty, you can first say good words and send generous gifts to get closer to it. If that doesn't work, you can cede the land to buy it. If that doesn't work, you can look for opportunities to send troops to attack it.
King Zhao said: I am waiting for your advice.
So Fan Ju was given the official position of Keqing and worked with him to plan military affairs.
Finally, he followed Fan Ju's strategy and sent five officials, Wan, to lead troops to attack Wei and captured Huaiyi.
Two years later, Xingqiu was captured.
Guest Qing Fan Ju later persuaded King Zhao: The terrains of Qin and Han are intertwined like intertwined embroidery.
The territory of Qin that extends into South Korea is like a tree trunk infested with moths and a person suffering from heart disease.
As long as the situation in the world does not change, once it changes, who can cause greater disaster to Qin than South Korea?
Your Majesty, it is better to contain South Korea.
King Zhao said: I originally wanted to win over South Korea, but South Korea did not listen. What should I do with it?
Fan Ju replied: How could South Korea not obey?
If you advance troops to attack Xingyang, the Korean road from Gong County to Chenggao will be blocked; if you cut off the main road of Taihang Mountain in the north, then Shangdang's army will not be able to go south.
Once the king sends troops to attack Xingyang, Korea will be divided into three isolated areas.
Seeing that South Korea is destined to perish, how can it not obey your orders?
If South Korea complies, it can take advantage of the situation to plan for hegemony. King Zhao said: Great.
I am going to send envoys to South Korea.
Fan Ju gained the trust of King Zhao of Qin day by day, and in the blink of an eye, he had been trusted by King Zhao of Qin for several years. Once Fan Ju asked King Zhao to discuss matters at his leisure and convenience, saying: When I lived in Shandong, I only heard that Qi had Tian Wen, but never heard that Qi had a king; I only heard that Qin had the Queen Mother, Ranghou, Huayang Jun, Gaoling Jun, and Jingyang Jun, but I had never heard that Qin had a Qin King.
The person who has the sole power of the country is called the king, the person who can bring about benefits and eliminate harm is called the king, and the person who controls the power of life and death is called the king.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
今太后擅行不顾，穰侯出使不报，华阳、泾阳等击断无讳，高陵进退不请。
四贵备而国不危者，未之有也。
为此四贵者下，乃所谓无王也。
然则权安得不倾，令安得从王出乎？
臣闻善治国者，乃内固其威而外重其权。
穰侯使者操王之重，决制於诸侯，剖符於天下，政適伐国，莫敢不听。
战胜攻取则利归於陶，国弊御於诸侯；战败则结怨於百姓，而祸归於社稷。
诗曰 木实繁者披其枝，披其枝者伤其心；大其都者危其国，尊其臣者卑其主 。
崔杼、淖齿管齐，射王股，擢王筋，县之於庙梁，宿昔而死。
李兑管赵，囚主父於沙丘，百日而饿死。
今臣闻秦太后、穰侯用事，高陵、华阳、泾阳佐之，卒无秦王，此亦淖齿、李兑之类也。
且夫三代所以亡国者，君专授政，纵酒驰骋弋猎，不听政事。
其所授者，妒贤嫉能，御下蔽上，以成其私，不为主计，而主不觉悟，故失其国。
今自有秩以上至诸大吏，下及王左右，无非相国之人者。
见王独立於朝，臣窃为王恐，万世之後，有秦国者非王子孙也。
昭王闻之大惧，曰： 善。
於是废太后，逐穰侯、高陵、华阳、泾阳君於关外。
秦王乃拜范雎为相。
收穰侯之印，使归陶，因使县官给车牛以徙，千乘有馀。
到关，关阅其宝器，宝器珍怪多於王室。
translation: 
Nowadays, the Queen Mother acts arbitrarily and without any scruples. Marquis Rang never reports to the king when he is on mission abroad. Lord Huayang and Lord Jingyang punish him as he pleases. Lord Gaoling never asks for instructions when appointing or dismissing officials.
All these four privileges have appeared, but the country has not been in danger. This has never happened before.
People are under the rule of these four powerful people, which is what I said about the Qin State, which has never heard of a king.
If this is the case, then how can the power not be left aside, and how can government orders be issued from the king?
I heard that a monarch who is good at governing a country should consolidate his power at home and concentrate his power abroad.
Ranghou's envoys exercised the great power of the king and issued orders to the vassal states. He also sent talisman-bearing envoys all over the world to make alliances and treaties, conquer the enemy, and attack other countries. No prince dared not to obey his orders.
If the battle is won and the city is captured, the benefits will be attributed to Taoyi. Once the country is in trouble, he can use it in the vassal states; if the battle is defeated, the people will resent the king and attribute the disaster to the country.
"Poetry" says: If there are too many fruits on the tree, the branches will be crushed, and if the branches are broken, the heart of the tree will be hurt; if the fiefdom and city are too large, it will harm the capital, and if the subordinates are elevated, they will suppress the monarch.
In the past, Cui Zhu and Nao Chi were in power in the state of Qi. Cui Zhu shot Duke Zhuang of Qi in the thigh and killed him. Nao Chi beat King Min of Qi's tendons and hung him from the temple beam. He hanged himself overnight.
Li Dui took power in the State of Zhao and imprisoned King Wuling of Zhao in a palace on the sand dune. He was trapped and starved to death for a hundred days.
Now I heard that the Queen Mother and Marquis Rang of the Qin State had exclusive power, and Lord Gaoling, Lord Huayang, and Lord Jingyang all worked together, but in the end they did not want the King of Qin. These are people like Nao Chi and Li Dui.
Besides, the reason why the Xia, Shang, and Zhou dynasties collapsed was that the monarchs handed over all their power to their favorite ministers, drank as much as they wanted, hunted as much as they wanted, and ignored the government affairs.
The favored ministers they authorized to serve were all jealous of talents, deceived superiors and deceived subordinates, sought personal gain, and never considered the monarch. However, the monarch did not wake up and lost his country.
Nowadays, from the small rural officials in the Qin State to the various high-ranking officials, to the king's attendants, there is no one who is not a close confidant of the Prime Minister Ranghou.
I saw that the king was alone in the court, and I was secretly afraid for you. After you, the people who own Qin will probably not be your descendants.
After hearing these words, King Zhao was as frightened as if he were waking up from a dream, and said: That's right.
So the Queen Mother was abandoned, and Ranghou, Gaoling Lord, Huayang Lord, and Jingyang Lord were expelled from the capital.
King Zhao of Qin appointed Fan Ju as prime minister.
He took back Ranghou's seal and asked him to return to his fiefdom, Taoyi. The imperial court sent carts and oxen to help him move his things out of the capital. There were more than a thousand carts loaded with things.
When he arrived at the capital checkpoint, the gatekeepers inspected his treasures and found that there were more precious and strange treasures than the monarch's home.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
秦封范雎以应，号为应侯。
当是时，秦昭王四十一年也。
范雎既相秦，秦号曰张禄，而魏不知，以为范雎已死久矣。
魏闻秦且东伐韩、魏，魏使须贾於秦。
范雎闻之，为微行，敝衣间步之邸，见须贾。
须贾见之而惊曰： 范叔固无恙乎！ 范雎曰： 然。
须贾笑曰： 范叔有说於秦邪？
曰： 不也。
雎前日得过於魏相，故亡逃至此，安敢说乎！
须贾曰： 今叔何事？
范雎曰 臣为人庸赁。
须贾意哀之，留与坐饮食，曰： 范叔一寒如此哉！
乃取其一綈袍以赐之。
须贾因问曰： 秦相张君，公知之乎？
吾闻幸於王，天下之事皆决於相君。
今吾事之去留在张君。
孺子岂有客习於相君者哉？
范雎曰： 主人翁习知之。
唯雎亦得谒，雎请为见君於张君。
须贾曰： 吾马病，车轴折，非大车驷马，吾固不出。
范雎曰： 原为君借大车驷马於主人翁。
范雎归取大车驷马，为须贾御之，入秦相府。
府中望见，有识者皆避匿。
须贾怪之。
至相舍门，谓须贾曰： 待我，我为君先入通於相君。
须贾待门下，持车良久，问门下曰： 范叔不出，何也？
门下曰： 无范叔。
须贾曰： 乡者与我载而入者。
门下曰： 乃吾相张君也。
须贾大惊，自知见卖，乃肉袒行，因门下人谢罪。
於是范雎盛帷帐，待者甚众，见之。
须贾顿首言死罪，曰： 贾不意君能自致於青云之上，贾不敢复读天下之书，不敢复与天下之事。
translation: 
King Zhao of Qin granted Yingcheng to Fan Ju, and the title was Fan Ju.
At this time, it was the forty-first year of King Zhao of Qin.
After Fan Ju became the prime minister of Qin, the people of Qin still called him Zhang Lu, but the people of Wei knew nothing about it and thought Fan Ju was dead long ago.
When the King of Wei heard that Qin was about to attack Han and Wei in the east, he sent Xu Jia as an envoy to Qin.
When Fan Ju learned that Xu Jia had arrived in the Qin State, he hid the identity of the Prime Minister and changed his travels. He secretly walked to the guesthouse wearing shabby clothes and met Xu Jia.
When Xu Jia saw Fan Ju, he couldn't help being shocked and said: "Uncle Fan, you didn't encounter any disaster!" Fan Ju said: Yes.
Xu Jia smiled and said, "Uncle Fan came to Qin to lobby, right?"
Fan Ju replied: No.
I offended the Prime Minister of Wei State, so I fled here. How can I dare to lobby!
Xu Jia asked: What are you doing here now?
Fan Ju replied: I work as a servant for others.
Xu Jia felt a little pity for him after hearing this, so he left Fan Ju to sit down and eat together. He said sympathetically: How come Uncle Fan is so poor?
So he took out a thick silk robe of his and gave it to him.
Xu Jia took the opportunity to ask: "Zhang Jun, the prime minister of Qin, do you know this person?"
I heard that he was very favored by the King of Qin, and all major affairs in the world were decided by Prime Minister Zhang Jun.
The success or failure of what I do this time also depends on Zhang Jun.
Do you, a boy, have any friends who are familiar with Prime Minister Zhang Jun?
Fan Ju said: My master is familiar with him.
Even I can ask for an audience. Please allow me to introduce you to Mr. Zhang.
Xu Jia said disapprovingly: My horse is sick and the axle is broken. If it is not a cart pulled by four horses, I will never go out.
Fan Ju said: I am willing to borrow a four-horse cart from my master for you.
Fan Ju went back and got a four-horse cart, and drove Xu Jia himself to the Qin Prime Minister's Palace.
People in the Prime Minister's Mansion saw Fan Ju driving his car, and some people who knew him avoided him and left.
Xu Jia was surprised to see such a scene.
Walking to the door of the Prime Minister's residence, Fan Ju said to Xu Jia: "Wait for me here. I will go in first to inform Prime Minister Zhang Jun."
Xu Jia was waiting at the door, holding the reins of his horse. After waiting for a long time but no one came, he asked the doorman: "Uncle Fan went in and couldn't come out for a long time. What's going on?"
The doorman said: There is no Uncle Fan here.
Xu Jia said: "That's the person who rode in with me just now."
The servant said: He is our Prime Minister Zhang Jun.
When Xu Jia heard this, he was shocked. Knowing that he had been tricked into entering, he quickly took off his shirt and knelt down on his knees. The servant confessed to Fan Ju.
So Fan Ju sent someone to hang up a grand tent, summoned many attendants, and then asked Xu Jia to come to the hall to see him.
When Xu Jia saw Fan Ju, he kowtowed and confessed to death, saying: "I didn't expect you to reach such a high position by your own ability. I don't dare to read the world's books anymore, and I don't dare to participate in the world's affairs anymore."


Chunk 8: 
original: 
贾有汤镬之罪，请自屏於胡貉之地，唯君死生之！ 范雎曰： 汝罪有几？
曰： 擢贾之发以续贾之罪，尚未足。
范雎曰： 汝罪有三耳。
昔者楚昭王时而申包胥为楚卻吴军，楚王封之以荆五千户，包胥辞不受，为丘墓之寄於荆也。
今雎之先人丘墓亦在魏，公前以雎为有外心於齐而恶雎於魏齐，公之罪一也。
当魏齐辱我於厕中，公不止，罪二也。
更醉而溺我，公其何忍乎？
罪三矣。
然公之所以得无死者，以綈袍恋恋，有故人之意，故释公。
乃谢罢。
入言之昭王，罢归须贾。
须贾辞於范雎，范雎大供具，尽请诸侯使，与坐堂上，食饮甚设。
而坐须贾於堂下，置豆其前，令两黥徒夹而马食之。
数曰： 为我告魏王，急持魏齐头来！
不然者，我且屠大梁。
须贾归，以告魏齐。魏齐恐，亡走赵。匿平原君所。
范雎既相，王稽谓范雎曰： 事有不可知者三，有不柰何者亦三。
宫车一日晏驾，是事之不可知者一也。
君卒然捐馆舍，是事之不可知者二也。
使臣卒然填沟壑，是事之不可知者三也。
宫车一日晏驾，君虽恨於臣，无可柰何。
君卒然捐馆舍，君虽恨於臣，亦无可柰何。
使臣卒然填沟壑，君虽恨於臣，亦无可柰何。
范雎不怿，乃入言於王曰： 非王稽之忠，莫能内臣於函谷关；非大王之贤圣，莫能贵臣。
今臣官至於相，爵在列侯，王稽之官尚止於谒者，非其内臣之意也。
昭王召王稽，拜为河东守，三岁不上计。
translation: 
I have committed a serious crime that deserves to be boiled and killed. I am willing to throw me into the desolate and barbaric Hurao area. Let me live or die. It is just up to your decision! Fan Ju said: How many crimes are you guilty of?
Xu Jia quickly replied: Even if you pluck out my hair to count my sins, it won't be enough.
Fan Ju said: You have three charges.
In the past, when King Zhao of Chu, Shen Baoxu planned for the Chu State and defeated the Wu army. The King of Chu granted him five thousand households in the Chu area as a settlement. Shen Baoxu declined and refused to accept it because his ancestral tomb was buried in the Chu State. Defeating the Wu army could also preserve his ancestral tomb.
Now my ancestral tomb is in the State of Wei, but you thought that I had an affair with the State of Wei and secretly communicated with the State of Qi, so you said bad things about me in front of Wei Qi. This is your first crime.
When Wei Qi threw me into the toilet and insulted me wantonly, you did not stop him. This is the second crime.
What's more, you peed on me when you were drunk. How could you bear it?
This is the third count.
But the reason why you can avoid being executed is because today you gave me a thick silk robe and it seems that you are still attached to me as an old friend, so I will give you a way to live and let you go.
So he resigned from Xu Jia and ended the meeting.
Immediately, Fan Ju went to the palace and reported the whole story to King Zhao. He decided not to accept Wei's envoy and ordered Xu Jia to return home.
Xu Jia went to say farewell to Fan Ju. Fan Ju held a banquet and invited all the envoys from various princely states in Qin to sit with him in the hall. There were lavish food and wine.
But Fan Ju made Xu Jia sit down in the hall, put a trough of feed mixed with grass beans in front of him, and ordered two prisoners who had been tortured to sandwich him in the middle and feed him like a horse.
Fan Ju ordered him: "Go back and tell King Wei what I said, and quickly offer Wei Qi's head!"
Otherwise, I will kill Daliang.
Xu Jia returned to the State of Wei and told Wei Qi about the situation. Wei Qi was greatly frightened, so he fled to the State of Zhao and hid in the home of Lord Pingyuan.
After Fan Ju became the Prime Minister of Qin, Wang Ji once said to Fan Ju: There are three things that are unpredictable and there are three things that are impossible to do.
The king may die one day. This is the first unpredictable thing.
You die suddenly and that's the second thing that's unpredictable.
If I go suddenly, this is the third unpredictable thing.
If the king dies one day, even if you feel sorry that I was not reused by the king, there is nothing you can do about it.
If you die suddenly, there is nothing you can do even if you regret that you have not repaid me.
If I die suddenly, even if you regret not recommending me in time, there is nothing you can do.
Fan Ju was unhappy after hearing this, so he went to the palace to speak to the King of Qin and said: Without Wang Ji's loyalty to you, no one would have brought me into Hangu Pass; but for the king's wisdom and wisdom, I would not have been able to make me so noble.
Now my official position is that of prime minister, and my title has been extended to the rank of marquis. However, Wang Ji is still just a visitor conveying orders to the king. This is not his original intention of bringing me to Qin.
King Qin Zhao summoned Wang Ji, appointed him as the governor of Hedong County, and allowed him not to report to the court on the political and economic conditions of the county for three years.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
又任郑安平，昭王以为将军。
范雎於是散家财物，尽以报所尝困戹者。
一饭之德必偿，睚眦之怨必报。
范雎相秦二年，秦昭王之四十二年，东伐韩少曲、高平，拔之。
秦昭王闻魏齐在平原君所，欲为范雎必报其仇，乃详为好书遗平原君曰； 寡人闻君之高义，原与君为布衣之友，君幸过寡人，寡人原与君为十日之饮。
平原君畏秦，且以为然，而入秦见昭王。
昭王与平原君饮数日，昭王谓平原君曰： 昔周文王得吕尚以为太公，齐桓公得管夷吾以为仲父，今范君亦寡人之叔父也。
范君之仇在君之家，原使人归取其头来；不然，吾不出君於关。
平原君曰： 贵而为交者，为贱也；富而为交者，为贫也。
夫魏齐者，胜之友也，在，固不出也，今又不在臣所。
昭王乃遗赵王书曰： 王之弟在秦，范君之仇魏齐在平原君之家。
王使人疾持其头来；不然，吾举兵而伐赵，又不出王之弟於关。
赵孝成王乃发卒围平原君家，急，魏齐夜亡出，见赵相虞卿。
虞卿度赵王终不可说，乃解其相印，与魏齐亡，间行，念诸侯莫可以急抵者，乃复走大梁，欲因信陵君以走楚。
信陵君闻之，畏秦，犹豫未肯见，曰： 虞卿何如人也？
时侯嬴在旁，曰： 人固未易知，知人亦未易也。
夫虞卿蹑屩檐簦，一见赵王，赐白璧一双，黄金百镒；再见，拜为上卿；三见，卒受相印，封万户侯。
当此之时，天下争知之。
夫魏齐穷困过虞卿，虞卿不敢重爵禄之尊，解相印，捐万户侯而间行。
急士之穷而归公子，公子曰 何如人 。
人固不易知，知人亦未易也！
信陵君大惭，驾如野迎之。
魏齐闻信陵君之初难见之，怒而自刭。
赵王闻之，卒取其头予秦。
秦昭王乃出平原君归赵。
昭王四十三年，秦攻韩汾陉，拔之，因城河上广武。
translation: 
Fan Ju recommended Zheng Anping to King Zhao of Qin who had protected him, and King Zhao appointed Zheng Anping as a general.
Fan Ju then distributed his family's belongings to repay all those who had helped him and were in dire straits.
He will definitely repay any small favor that is given to him by giving him a meal, and he will definitely retaliate against any small grudge that is given to him by glaring at him.
In the second year after Fan Ju was appointed Prime Minister of Qin, which was the 42nd year of King Zhao of Qin, Qin attacked Shaoqu and Gaoping in South Korea eastward and captured these two cities.
When King Zhao of Qin heard that Wei Qi was hiding in Lord Pingyuan's house, he thought that he must avenge Fan Ju, so he pretended to be friends and wrote a letter to Lord Pingyuan, saying: I have heard for a long time that you have noble moral character, and I hope to make a close friend with you who is as free as a common person. If you are willing to come and stay with me for a few days, I am willing to have fun and drink with you for ten days.
Lord Pingyuan was originally afraid of Qin, but after reading the letter, he thought that King Qin Zhao really wanted to make friends with him, so he went to Qin to meet King Qin Zhao.
After King Zhao had a banquet with Lord Pingyuan for a few days, he said to Lord Pingyuan: In the past, King Wen of Zhou was honored by Lu Shang as Taigong, and Duke Huan of Qi was honored as Zhongfu by Guan Yi. Now Mr. Fan can also be said to be my uncle.
Mr. Fan's enemy lives in your house, and I hope you will send someone to fetch his head; otherwise, I will not let you leave Hangu Pass.
Mr. Pingyuan said: When you are rich, you still have to make lowly friends, so as not to forget the friendship you had when you were lowly; when you are rich, you still make poor friends, so you don't forget the friendship you had when you were poor.
Wei Qi is my friend. Even if he is really in my house, I will never hand him over, let alone he is not in my house at all now.
King Zhao wrote another letter to the king of Zhao, saying: The king's younger brother is here in our country of Qin, and Mr. Fan's enemy Wei Qi is at the house of Lord Pingyuan.
The king will send someone to get his head quickly; otherwise, I will launch an army to attack the State of Zhao and not release the king's brother from Hangu Pass.
King Zhao Xiaocheng read the letter and sent soldiers to surround Pingyuanjun's house. In the crisis, Wei Qi escaped from Pingyuanjun's house overnight and met Yu Qing, the prime minister of Zhao.
Yu Qing estimated that King Zhao would not be able to persuade him, so he took off his seal and escaped from Zhao with Wei Qi. The two took a small road to escape. After much deliberation, they found no one in the vassal states who could take refuge in the situation, so they rushed back to Daliang, planning to defect to Chu through Lord Xinling.
When Lord Xinling heard the news, he hesitated and refused to receive them because he was afraid that Qin would come to his door. So he asked the people around him, "How is Yu Qing?"
Hou Ying was also there at that time, so he replied: Although it is difficult for others to understand people, it is not easy to understand others.
That Yu Qing wore straw sandals on his feet and an umbrella on his shoulder, and traveled far to the Kingdom of Zhao. When he met King Zhao for the first time, King Zhao gave him a pair of white jade stones and a hundred taels of gold.
At present, people all over the world are vying to understand Yu Qing's character.
When Wei Qi was desperate, he defected to Yu Qing. Yu Qing didn't take his high official's salary seriously at all, so he took off his seal, abandoned his title of Marquis of Wanhu, and ran away with Wei Qi.
How about someone who can take other people's difficulties as his own and come to you? How about this person?
Although it is difficult for people to be understood by others, it is also not easy to understand others!
After hearing these words, Lord Xinling felt deeply ashamed and hurriedly drove to the countryside to meet them.
But what Wei Qi heard was that Lord Xinling was not willing to receive him at first, so he cut his neck and committed suicide in anger.
King Zhao learned that Wei Qi had committed suicide, so he finally took his head and sent it to Qin.
King Zhao of Qin then released Lord Pingyuan back to Zhao.
In the forty-third year of King Zhao, the Qin State attacked Fenxing in South Korea, captured it, and built a city on Guangwu Mountain next to the Yellow River.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
後五年，昭王用应侯谋，纵反间卖赵，赵以其故，令马服子代廉颇将。
秦大破赵於长平，遂围邯郸。
已而与武安君白起有隙，言而杀之。
任郑安平，使击赵。
郑安平为赵所围，急，以兵二万人降赵。
应侯席请罪。
秦之法，任人而所任不善者，各以其罪罪之。
於是应侯罪当收三族。
秦昭王恐伤应侯之意，乃下令国中： 有敢言郑安平事者，以其罪罪之。
而加赐相国应侯食物日益厚，以顺適其意。
後二岁，王稽为河东守，与诸侯通，坐法诛。
而应侯日益以不怿。
昭王临朝叹息，应侯进曰： 臣闻 主忧臣辱，主辱臣死 。
今大王中朝而忧，臣敢请其罪。
昭王曰： 吾闻楚之铁剑利而倡优拙。
夫铁剑利则士勇，倡优拙则思虑远。
夫以远思虑而御勇士，吾恐楚之图秦也。
夫物不素具，不可以应卒，今武安君既死，而郑安平等畔，内无良将而外多敌国，吾是以忧。
欲以激励应侯。
应侯惧，不知所出。
蔡泽闻之，往入秦也。
蔡泽者，燕人也。
游学干诸侯小大甚众，不遇。
而从唐举相，曰： 吾闻先生相李兑，曰 百日之内持国秉 ，有之乎？
曰： 有之。
曰： 若臣者何如？
唐举孰视而笑曰： 先生曷鼻，巨肩，魋颜，蹙齃，膝挛。
吾闻圣人不相，殆先生乎？
translation: 
Five years later, King Zhao adopted Fan Ju's strategy and implemented a counterintuitive plan to deceive the State of Zhao. For this reason, the State of Zhao let Zhao Kuo, the son of Ma Fujun Zhao She, lead the army instead of Lian Po.
As a result, the Qin army defeated the Zhao army in Changping and then besieged Handan.
Soon afterwards, Fan Ju formed a grudge with Bai Qi, Lord of Wu'an, and slandered King Qin Zhao and killed Bai Qi.
So King Zhao of Qin appointed Zheng Anping and sent him to lead troops to attack Zhao.
Zheng Anping was surrounded by the Zhao army on the battlefield and was in critical condition. He led 20,000 Qin soldiers to surrender to Zhao.
Fan Ju knew that he could not escape the blame, so he knelt on the straw mat and begged for punishment.
According to the laws of the State of Qin, if an official is recommended and the recommended official commits a crime, then the recommender will also be punished according to the crime of the recommended official.
In this way, Fan Ju should be sentenced to the crime of arresting his father, mother, and wife.
However, King Qin Zhao was worried about hurting Fan Ju's feelings, so he ordered that anyone in the capital who dared to discuss Zheng Anping's affairs would be punished according to Zheng Anping's crimes.
At the same time, Fan Ju, the prime minister, was rewarded with richer food to make Fan Ju feel at ease.
In the next two years, Wang Ji served as the governor of Hedong County. He had colluded with the princes and was executed for breaking the law.
For this reason, Fan Ju became more and more depressed day by day.
Later, one day, King Zhao of Qin kept sighing when he went to court. Fan Ju stepped forward and said: I heard that it is a shame for the ministers to worry about the monarch, and it is a capital crime for the ministers to be humiliated.
Today, the king is so worried about government affairs. I beg to be punished for my crime.
King Zhao said: I heard that Chu’s iron swords are sharp but their singing and dancing skills are poor.
If the country's iron sword is sharp, its soldiers will be brave; if its singing and dancing skills are poor, its monarch's plans will be far-reaching.
Commanding brave soldiers with far-reaching strategies in mind, I am worried that Chu is planning how to attack Qin.
If you don't prepare in advance, you won't be able to cope with sudden changes. Now that Lord Wu An is dead, and Zheng Anping and others have rebelled, there are no generals who are good at fighting at home and there are many hostile countries abroad, so I am worried.
King Zhao of Qin said this to inspire and encourage Fan Ju.
But Fan Ju felt frightened after hearing this and couldn't think of anything to do.
Cai Ze learned about this situation and came to Qin from Yan State.
Cai Ze is from Yan State.
He traveled around the country to learn from his teachers and sought official positions from many princes, big and small, but received no credit.
Once he asked Tang Ju to meet him and said: I heard that Mr. Li Dui met him and said that he would take over the power of a country within a hundred days. Is this true?
Tang Ju replied: "This is the case."
Cai Ze said: What do you think of people like me?
Tang Ju looked at it carefully and then said with a smile: "Sir, he has an upturned nose, straight shoulders, protruding forehead, flat nose bridge, and bow-legged legs."
I heard that saints are not judged by their appearance, so I am probably talking about Mr.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
蔡泽知唐举戏之，乃曰： 富贵吾所自有，吾所不知者寿也，原闻之。
唐举曰： 先生之寿，从今以往者四十三岁。
蔡泽笑谢而去，谓其御者曰： 吾持粱刺齿肥，跃马疾驱，怀黄金之印，结紫绶於要，揖让人主之前，食肉富贵，四十三年足矣。
去之赵，见逐。
之韩、魏，遇夺釜鬲於涂。
闻应侯任郑安平、王稽皆负重罪於秦，应侯内惭，蔡泽乃西入秦。
将见昭王，使人宣言以感怒应侯曰： 燕客蔡泽，天下雄俊弘辩智士也。
彼一见秦王，秦王必困君而夺君之位。
应侯闻，曰： 五帝三代之事，百家之说，吾既知之，众口之辩，吾皆摧之，是恶能困我而夺我位乎？
使人召蔡泽。
蔡泽入，则揖应。
应侯固不快，及见之，又倨，应侯因让之曰： 子尝宣言欲代我相秦，宁有之乎？
对曰： 然。 应侯曰： 请闻其说。
蔡泽曰： 吁，君何见之晚也！夫四时之序，成功者去。
夫人生百体坚彊，手足便利，耳目聪明而心圣智，岂非士之原与？
应侯曰： 然。 蔡泽曰： 质仁秉义，行道施德，得志於天下，天下怀乐敬爱而尊慕之，皆原以为君王，岂不辩智之期与？
应侯曰： 然。 蔡泽复曰： 富贵显荣，成理万物，使各得其所；性命寿长，终其天年而不夭伤；天下继其统，守其业，传之无穷；名实纯粹，泽流千里，世世称之而无绝，与天地终始：岂道德之符而圣人所谓吉祥善事者与？
应侯曰： 然。 蔡泽曰： 若夫秦之商君，楚之吴起，越之大夫种，其卒然亦可原与？
应侯知蔡泽之欲困己以说，复谬曰： 何为不可？
夫公孙鞅之事孝公也，极身无贰虑，尽公而不顾私；设刀锯以禁奸邪，信赏罚以致治；披腹心，示情素，蒙怨咎，欺旧友，夺魏公子卬，安秦社稷，利百姓，卒为秦禽将破敌，攘地千里。
translation: 
Cai Ze knew that Tang Ju was joking with him, so he said, "I already have wealth. What I don't know is the length of life. I want to hear your opinion."
Tang Ju said: Sir, your life span will be forty-three years from now on.
Cai Ze smiled and expressed his gratitude and walked away. Then he said to his coachman: I am carrying rice and eating fat meat, driving the carriage at a gallop, holding a gold seal in my hand, and wearing a purple ribbon around my waist. I am highly respected in front of my master and enjoy glory and wealth. I should be satisfied for forty-three years.
He left Yan State and went to Zhao State, but was driven out by Zhao State.
Then he went to South Korea and Wei State. On the way, he encountered robbers who robbed him of his cooking utensils such as pots and tripods.
He heard that both Zheng Anping and Wang Ji recommended by Fan Ju had committed serious crimes in the Qin State. Fan Ju felt ashamed and could not lift his head, so Cai Ze went west to the Qin State.
He was going to visit King Zhao of Qin. He first sent someone to make a speech in front of Fan Ju to provoke Fan Ju, saying: Cai Ze, a guest from the state of Yan, is a wise and eloquent man with extraordinary knowledge and eloquence in the world.
As soon as he sees the King of Qin, the King of Qin will definitely put you in trouble and deprive you of your power.
Fan Ju heard these words and said: I am familiar with the affairs of the Five Emperors and Three Dynasties and the theories of various schools of thought. I can convince many people with their eloquent words. How can this person embarrass me and take away my power?
So he sent someone to summon Cai Ze.
Cai Ze came in and bowed to Fan Ju.
Fan Ju was unhappy at first. When he met Cai Ze and saw how arrogant he was, Fan Ju reprimanded him and said, "You once threatened to replace me as Qin's prime minister. Has this ever happened to you?" Cai Ze replied: Yes.
Fan Ju said: Let me hear what you have to say. Cai Ze said: Yo!
Why are you so slow to understand the problem? The four seasons of spring, summer, autumn and winter change in a year, and each one completes its mission and then recedes automatically.
All parts of a person's body are strong, his hands and feet are nimble, his ears can hear clearly, his eyes can see clearly, and his mind is intelligent. Isn't this the scholar's wish? Fan Ju said: Yes.
Cai Ze said: He is based on benevolence, upholds justice, promotes the right path, spreads kindness, and is willing to realize his ambitions in the world. People in the world support, love, respect and admire him, and all hope to make him a monarch. Isn't this what a wise and eloquent person expects? Fan Ju said: Yes.
Cai Ze also said: He who is in a position of wealth and glory, governs everything so that everything can be in its proper place; lives a long life, spends his life safely without dying; the world inherits his tradition, sticks to his career, and passes it on forever; his reputation is in perfect harmony with reality, his kindness is extended thousands of miles away, and he is praised from generation to generation as never ending and as long as heaven and earth: Isn't this the effect of promoting the right way and spreading kindness and the auspicious and good deeds mentioned by the saints? Fan Ju said: Yes.
Cai Ze said: As for Shang Yang of Qin, Wu Qi of Chu, and Wen Zhong, the great official of Yue, are their tragic endings enviable?
Fan Ju knew that Cai Ze wanted to use these words to block his mouth and convince himself, so he deliberately quibbled and said: Why not?
That Gongsun Yang served Qin Xiaogong without any second thoughts throughout his life. He devoted himself to the public affairs and did not care about himself. He set up tortures with knives and saws to suppress treachery and evil, and implemented rewards and punishments to achieve peace in the country. He showed his loyalty and true feelings, suffered resentment and accusations, deceived old friends, captured Wei Gongzi Yan, stabilized the country of Qin, and benefited the people. Finally, he captured enemy generals for Qin, defeated the enemy troops, and opened up the territory thousands of miles away.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
吴起之事悼王也，使私不得害公，谗不得蔽忠，言不取苟合，行不取苟容，不为危易行，行义不辟难，然为霸主强国，不辞祸凶。
大夫种之事越王也，主虽困辱，悉忠而不解，主虽绝亡，尽能而弗离，成功而弗矜，贵富而不骄怠。
若此三子者，固义之至也，忠之节也。
是故君子以义死难，视死如归；生而辱不如死而荣。
士固有杀身以成名，虽义之所在，虽死无所恨。
何为不可哉？
蔡泽曰： 主圣臣贤，天下之盛福也；君明臣直，国之福也；父慈子孝，夫信妻贞，家之福也。
故比干忠而不能存殷，子胥智而不能完吴，申生孝而晋国乱。
是皆有忠臣孝子，而国家灭乱者，何也？
无明君贤父以听之，故天下以其君父为僇辱而怜其臣子。
今商君、吴起、大夫种之为人臣，是也；其君，非也。
故世称三子致功而不见德，岂慕不遇世死乎？
夫待死而後可以立忠成名，是微子不足仁，孔子不足圣，管仲不足大也。
夫人之立功，岂不期於成全邪？
身与名俱全者，上也。
名可法而身死者，其次也。
名在僇辱而身全者，下也。
於是应侯称善。
蔡泽少得间，因曰： 夫商君、吴起、大夫种，其为人臣尽忠致功则可原矣，闳夭事文王，周公辅成王也，岂不亦忠圣乎？
以君臣论之，商君、吴起、大夫种其可原孰与闳夭、周公哉？
应侯曰： 商君、吴起、大夫种弗若也。 蔡泽曰： 然则君之主慈仁任忠，惇厚旧故，其贤智与有道之士为胶漆，义不倍功臣，孰与秦孝公、楚悼王、越王乎？
translation: 
Wu Qi served the king of Chu, so that his private affairs could not harm the public, his loyal ministers could not be blocked by treacherous and slanderous words, he did not agree with everyone's opinions, he was scrupulous in his work and protected himself, he did not change his actions because of danger, he insisted on righteousness and did not avoid disasters. In this way, in order for the monarch to achieve hegemony and make the country strong, he will never avoid disasters and dangers.
The official Wen Zhong serves the King of Yue. Even if the monarch encounters difficulties and humiliation, he still remains loyal and unyielding.
These three gentlemen are originally standards of morality and examples of loyalty and integrity.
Therefore, a gentleman who suffers death for the sake of righteousness regards death as home; being humiliated while alive is not as glorious as death.
Scholars should have the ambition to sacrifice their lives to achieve fame. As long as it is for the sake of righteousness, there will be no regrets even if they die.
Why not?
Cai Ze said: A wise monarch and virtuous ministers are a great blessing to the world; a wise monarch and upright ministers are a blessing to a country; a loving father, a filial son, an honest husband and a loyal wife are a blessing to a family.
Therefore, Bi Gan was loyal but could not save the Yin Dynasty; Zixu was resourceful but could not save the Wu Kingdom; Shen Sheng was filial but the Jin Kingdom was in chaos.
These are all examples of loyal ministers and filial sons, but the country was destroyed and in chaos. Why is this?
It is because there are no wise kings or virtuous fathers to listen to their voices, so everyone in the world thinks that such kings and fathers are shameful, and pities their ministers and sons who sympathize with them.
Now it seems that Shang Yang, Wu Qi, and Dafu Wenzhong were right as ministers; their kings were wrong.
So the world says that these three gentlemen achieved great achievements but received no good rewards. Is it because they envy them for not being noticed by the king and dying innocently?
If only death can establish a reputation for loyalty, then Wei Zi cannot be called a benevolent person, Confucius cannot be called a saint, and Guan Zhong cannot be called a great man.
If people want to make great achievements, don’t they expect their achievements to be there?
It is the best to be able to preserve one's own life, achievements and reputation.
If one's fame can be followed by future generations but one's own life cannot be saved, this is second-rate.
It is inferior to someone whose reputation is insulted but whose life is saved.
At this point, Fan Ju praised the words well.
Cai Ze seized some opportunities and took the opportunity to say: Shang Yang, Wu Qi, and Wen Zhong, as ministers of others, are loyal to the monarch and have achieved great achievements. This is worthy of people's envy. But when Hong Yao served King Zhou Wen and Zhou Gongdan assisted King Zhou Cheng, weren't they loyal and full of wisdom?
From the perspective of the relationship between the monarch and his ministers, who is more enviable compared to Shang Yang, Wu Qi, Wen Zhong, Hong Yao, and Zhou Gongdan? Fan Ju said: Shang Yang and Wu Qi were not as good at writing as Hong Yao and Zhou Gongdan.
Cai Ze said: In this case, the monarch you serve is kind and benevolent, appoints loyal ministers, treats former friends with kindness and honesty, his virtuous and intelligent people can be as close as glue and lacquer to those talented people, he has deep feelings for people, and will not abandon the ministers who have done meritorious service for him. Who is better than King Zhao of Qin, Duke Xiao of Qin, King Mou of Chu, and King of Yue?


Chunk 13: 
original: 
应侯曰： 未知何如也。
蔡泽曰： 今主亲忠臣，不过秦孝公、楚悼王、越王，君之设智，能为主安危修政，治乱彊兵，批患折难，广地殖穀，富国足家，彊主，尊社稷，显宗庙，天下莫敢欺犯其主，主之威盖震海内，功彰万里之外，声名光辉传於千世，君孰与商君、吴起、大夫种？ 应侯曰： 不若。
蔡泽曰： 今主之亲忠臣不忘旧故不若孝公、悼王、句践，而君之功绩爱信亲幸又不若商君、吴起、大夫种，然而君之禄位贵盛，私家之富过於三子，而身不退者，恐患之甚於三子，窃为君危之。
语曰 日中则移，月满则亏 。
物盛则衰，天地之常数也。
进退盈缩，与时变化，圣人之常道也。
故 国有道则仕，国无道则隐 。
圣人曰 飞龙在天，利见大人 。 不义而富且贵，於我如浮云 。
今君之怨已雠而德已报，意欲至矣，而无变计，窃为君不取也。
且夫翠、鹄、犀、象，其处势非不远死也，而所以死者，惑於饵也。
苏秦、智伯之智，非不足以辟辱远死也，而所以死者，惑於贪利不止也。
是以圣人制礼节欲，取於民有度，使之以时，用之有止，故志不溢，行不骄，常与道俱而不失，故天下承而不绝。
昔者齐桓公九合诸侯，一匡天下，至於葵丘之会，有骄矜之志，畔者九国。
translation: 
Fan Ju said: There is no way to know what it will be like.
Cai Ze said: Now your monarch is close to loyal ministers, but not more than Qin Xiaogong, Chu Yu Wang, and Yue Wang. You use your wisdom to help the monarch solve crises, rectify the country, quell rebellions, strengthen the military, eliminate troubles, eliminate disasters, expand the territory, increase grain, make the country rich and powerful, the people are rich, strengthen the power of the ruler, and improve the country. The status of the family shows the nobility of the royal family. No prince in the world dares to deceive or invade your king. The power of the monarch can intimidate any prince in the four seas. His achievements are demonstrated thousands of miles away. His reputation is like an eternal glory that will be passed down through the ages. In these aspects, how do you compare with Shang Yang, Wu Qi, and Dafu Wenzhong? Fan Ju said: I can't compare.
Cai Ze said: Today, the king is not as good as Duke Xiao of Qin, King Mou of Chu, and King Goujian of Yue in terms of being close to his loyal ministers and not forgetting his original friends. And the credit you have created and the favor, trust, and intimacy you have received from the monarch are not as much as those of Shang Yang, Wu Qi, and Wen Zhong, but what you have gained You have a lot of salary and a very noble position. Your personal wealth exceeds that of Shang Yang, Wu Qi, and Wen Zhong. If you don't know how to abdicate voluntarily, I am afraid that the disaster you will cause in the future will be more serious than those three people. I secretly feel that you are already very dangerous.
As the saying goes, the sun will gradually tilt when it reaches the central position, and the moon will begin to wane after it becomes full.
Everything will begin to decline after reaching its peak. This is a universal law that exists between heaven and earth.
Advancing, retreating, expanding and contracting, changing with the changing times, this is the common sense adhered to by the saints in ancient times.
Therefore, when the country is politically clear, he will become an official, and when the country is politically dark, he will live in seclusion.
The sage said that flying like a dragon into the sky is more conducive to meeting virtuous people. Wealth and noble status acquired through unethical means seem to me like clouds floating in the sky.
Now that your revenge has been avenged, the kindness you have received has been repaid, and all your wishes have been realized, but you have no strategy to deal with the changes. Privately, I feel that you are very unwise.
Moreover, for animals like jadeite, swans, rhinoceros, and elephants, their location can be said to be far away from accidental death. The reason for their death is due to being confused by the bait.
The wisdom of people like Su Qin and Zhibo was enough to prevent them from being insulted and away from death. However, the reason why they were still insulted and died was because they were tempted by interests.
It is precisely because of this that the ancient saints created etiquette to control their desires, ask for limited amounts from the people, let the people serve according to the seasons, and have a certain degree of restraint in collecting property, so that their will will not be complacent, their behavior will not be proud, and they will always comply with morality without losing morality, so the world can be passed down from generation to generation.
In the past, Duke Huan of Qi made nine alliances with the princes, which immediately brought the world back to orthodoxy. However, when he met at Kuiqiu to make an alliance, he had a sense of pride and complacency in his heart, and nine princes opposed him.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
吴王夫差兵无敌於天下，勇彊以轻诸侯，陵齐晋，故遂以杀身亡国。
夏育、太史噭叱呼骇三军，然而身死於庸夫。
此皆乘至盛而不返道理，不居卑退处俭约之患也。
夫商君为秦孝公明法令，禁奸本，尊爵必赏，有罪必罚，平权衡，正度量，调轻重，决裂阡陌，以静生民之业而一其俗，劝民耕农利土，一室无二事，力田稸积，习战陈之事，是以兵动而地广，兵休而国富，故秦无敌於天下，立威诸侯，成秦国之业。
功已成矣，而遂以车裂。
楚地方数千里，持戟百万，白起率数万之师以与楚战，一战举鄢郢以烧夷陵，再战南并蜀汉。
又越韩、魏而攻彊赵，北阬马服，诛屠四十馀万之众，尽之于长平之下，流血成川，沸声若雷，遂入围邯郸，使秦有帝业。
楚、赵天下之彊国而秦之仇敌也，自是之後，楚、赵皆慑伏不敢攻秦者，白起之势也。
身所服者七十馀城，功已成矣，而遂赐剑死於杜邮。
吴起为楚悼王立法，卑减大臣之威重，罢无能，废无用，损不急之官，塞私门之请，一楚国之俗，禁游客之民，精耕战之士，南收杨越，北并陈、蔡，破横散从，使驰说之士无所开其口，禁朋党以励百姓，定楚国之政，兵震天下，威服诸侯。
功已成矣，而卒枝解。
大夫种为越王深谋远计，免会稽之危，以亡为存，因辱为荣，垦草入邑，辟地殖穀，率四方之士，专上下之力，辅句践之贤，报夫差之雠，卒擒劲吴。令越成霸。
功已彰而信矣，句践终负而杀之。
此四子者，功成不去，祸至於此。
translation: 
The soldiers under King Wu Fu Chai could not find any rival among the princes in the world. He relied on his own bravery and strength to look down on the princes and bullied the two countries of Qi and Jin. Therefore, he was killed and Wu was destroyed.
Xia Yu and Taishi Po were both men who could shock and frighten the entire army with just one roar, but in the end they both died at the hands of ordinary people.
This is all because after they are in an extremely powerful position, they no longer care about conventional morality and affairs, they no longer maintain a modest and prudent attitude, and they cannot be frugal and restrain themselves from the disasters they cause.
Shang Yang helped Qin Xiaogong promulgate a clear decree, which banned the source of evil and evil. Honorable titles must be used for rewards, and those who commit crimes must be punished. He unified the standard units of weight, length, and capacity, adjusted the relationship between the weight and weight of goods circulation, and leveled the crisscrossing ridges in the fields, so that the people of Qin could be more secure. Production is carried out in a fixed area, which unifies the living customs of the people and encourages the people to actively engage in agricultural production. If a family has more than two adult men, they must live separately. People work hard to cultivate the fields, store food, and practice military battle formations in peacetime. Therefore, when the army is deployed, it can expand its territory, and when the army rests, it can make the country rich. Therefore, Qin has no rivals among the princes in the world, and has established a high prestige among the princes, which has laid the foundation for Qin's great achievements.
After the great deeds were completed, Shang Yang was eventually punished by having his car broken.
The land of Chu was thousands of miles wide, and there were more than a million soldiers holding halberds. However, Bai Qi led tens of thousands of Qin troops to fight against Chu. In the first battle, he occupied Yan and Ying of Chu, burned Yiling, and after another battle, he went south and annexed Shu and Hanzhong.
Later, he crossed the two countries of Korea and Wei to attack the powerful Zhao State, killed Ma Fujun's son in the north, and massacred more than 400,000 soldiers in Changping. The blood of the Zhao army flowed into a river, and the sound of the flowing blood was like roaring thunder. Then he entered the Zhao State and besieged Handan, laying the foundation for Qin to become an emperor.
Chu and Zhao are the two most powerful states among the princes in the world, and they are also the enemies of Qin. Since the end of the war, the reason why Chu and Zhao were afraid of surrender and did not dare to attack Qin was because of Bai Qi's power.
Bai Qi personally led his troops to conquer more than seventy cities. After establishing his achievements, he was eventually given a sword to commit suicide and died in Duyou.
Wu Qi helped King Chu Mourning to establish laws, weaken the excessive power in the hands of ministers, reduce the ministers' overly exalted status, remove incompetent officials, abolish officials of no use, eliminate secret officials, eliminate private requests, unify the life and customs of Chu State, prohibit people from wandering around without engaging in production, reward farming efforts, and With brave people and soldiers, they subdued Yang Yue to the south and annexed Chen and Cai to the north. They exposed the futility of the vertical and horizontal policies, so that those who lobbied the Chu State had no chance to speak. They prohibited the ministers from forming cliques and encouraged the people to engage in production. They stabilized the Chu State's politics, shocked the world with its military strength, and made all the vassal states surrender.
After the work was completed, Wu Qi was dismembered and died.
Wen Zhong planned far-reaching strategies for the king of Yue, avoiding the imminent crisis of being trapped in Kuaiji and making the situation of danger continue to exist. He used the humiliation suffered by the king and ministers to seek the glory of revenge, reclaimed the wasteland full of weeds, recruited people into the city, and opened up farmland. Come to grow food, bring people from all directions under the command of the King of Yue, unite the power from top to bottom, assist a virtuous monarch like Gou Jian, and finally avenge the hatred of Wu King Fu Chai for destroying Yue, finally eliminate the powerful Wu State, and make the Yue State the overlord of the generation.
Wen Zhong's contribution has been so obvious and confirmed, but Gou Jian finally betrayed morality and killed him.
The four worthy people I mentioned did not leave after the establishment of their merits, and they suffered such disasters.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
此所谓信而不能诎，往而不能返者也。
范蠡知之，超然辟世，长为陶硃公。
君独不观夫博者乎？
或欲大投，或欲分功，此皆君之所明知也。
今君相秦，计不下席，谋不出廊庙，坐制诸侯，利施三川，以实宜阳，决羊肠之险，塞太行之道，又斩范、中行之涂，六国不得合从，栈道千里，通於蜀汉，使天下皆畏秦，秦之欲得矣，君之功极矣，此亦秦之分功之时也。
如是而不退，则商君、白公、吴起、大夫种是也。
吾闻之， 鉴於水者见面之容，鉴於人者知吉与凶 。
书曰 成功之下，不可久处 。
四子之祸，君何居焉？
君何不以此时归相印，让贤者而授之，退而岩居川观，必有伯夷之廉，长为应侯。世世称孤，而有许由、延陵季子之让，乔松之寿，孰与以祸终哉？
即君何居焉？
忍不能自离，疑不能自决，必有四子之祸矣。
易曰 亢龙有悔 ，此言上而不能下，信而不能诎，往而不能自返者也。
原君孰计之！
应侯曰： 善。
吾闻 欲而不知，失其所以欲；有而不知足，失其所以有 。
先生幸教，雎敬受命。
於是乃延入坐，为上客。
後数日，入朝，言於秦昭王曰： 客新有从山东来者曰蔡泽，其人辩士，明於三王之事，五伯之业，世俗之变，足以寄秦国之政。
臣之见人甚众，莫及，臣不如也。
臣敢以闻。
秦昭王召见，与语，大说之，拜为客卿。
translation: 
This is what is called being able to stretch but not bend, being able to advance but not retreat.
Fan Li understood this truth, so he avoided the secular world with detachment and stayed in front of his Tao Zhugong for a long time.
Haven't you seen those people gambling?
Sometimes you have to make a single bet to make a profit, and sometimes you have to divide your bets into several times to make a profit. These are all things you know very well.
Now that you are the Prime Minister of Qin, you don’t have to leave your seat to make plans, and you don’t have to leave the court to formulate strategies. You can control and command the princes while sitting in your seat, and exert your interests on the Sanchuan area, thereby increasing the strength of Yiyang, cutting off the dangerous road to Yangchang Ban, blocking the main transportation road to Taihang Mountain, and cutting off the Fan family and the Bank of China. These passages to the territories of South Korea and Wei made it impossible for those six countries to implement the policy of joint control. The plank roads built were a thousand miles long, leading directly to Shu and Hanzhong areas, making all the princes in the world fear Qin from the bottom of their hearts.
If you don't know how to retire under such circumstances, you will be like Shang Yang, Bai Qi, and Wen Zhong.
I have heard this saying, if you look at the surface of the water as a mirror, you can see your own face; if you look at others as a mirror, you can know whether your future will be good or bad.
"The Book" says that when the work has been completed, it cannot stay for a long time.
The disaster of the four people mentioned above is already a good mirror. Why should you bear it?
Why don't you take this opportunity to hand over your seal and give up your throne to a capable person to be the prime minister of Qin? After you retire, you can live on the green mountains and enjoy the flowing water leisurely. You will definitely get a reputation as honest and honest like Boyi, and you will be your own Fan Ju for a long time.
So which situation do you think is better?
If you are unwilling to leave on your own initiative and are unable to make a decision on your own because of hesitation, then you will inevitably invite disasters like the four people mentioned above.
"Yi" says that when a dragon reaches its peak, it must guard against arrogance and impetuosity, otherwise it will regret it. This refers to the situation of being able to go up but not down, being able to stretch but not bend, and being able to advance but not retreat.
So I hope you will seriously consider this issue!
Fan Ju said: Well said.
I heard someone say that if a person's desires are never satisfied, he will eventually lose what he wants to achieve; if a person already has a lot but doesn't know how to stop, he will lose what he already has.
I am fortunate to have received your advice from my husband, and I respectfully accept your opinion.
So Cai Ze was invited to sit at the banquet and treated as a distinguished guest.
A few days later, Fan Ju went to court and spoke to King Zhao of Qin: There is a guest named Cai Ze who has just come from the east of Xiaoshan. This man is a very eloquent man. He knows the affairs of the three kings, the achievements of the five hegemons and the changes in the world. He can be entrusted with the great affairs of Qin.
I have seen many wise men, but no one can catch up with him, and neither am I.
I take the liberty of reporting this to you.
King Zhao of Qin summoned Cai Ze. After talking to him, he liked him very much and granted him the position of guest minister.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
应侯因谢病请归相印。
昭王彊起应侯，应侯遂称病笃。
范雎免相，昭王新说蔡泽计画，遂拜为秦相，东收周室。
蔡泽相秦数月，人或恶之，惧诛，乃谢病归相印，号为纲成君。
居秦十馀年，事昭王、孝文王、庄襄王。
卒事始皇帝，为秦使於燕，三年而燕使太子丹入质於秦。
太史公曰：韩子称 长袖善舞，多钱善贾 ，信哉是言也！
范雎、蔡泽世所谓一切辩士，然游说诸侯至白首无所遇者，非计策之拙，所为说力少也。
及二人羁旅入秦，继踵取卿相，垂功於天下者，固彊弱之势异也。
然士亦有偶合，贤者多如此二子，不得尽意，岂可胜道哉！然二子不困戹，恶能激乎？
应侯始困，讬载而西，说行计立，贵平宠稽。
translation: 
Fan Ju took the opportunity to plead for illness and requested that Xiangyin be sent back.
King Qin Zhao still tried his best to make him a deacon, so Fan Ju said that he was seriously ill.
Fan Ju was dismissed from his position as prime minister. When King Zhao first summoned Cai Ze, he appreciated his plan and appointed Cai Ze as the prime minister of Qin. Xiangdong destroyed the Zhou Dynasty.
Cai Ze had been the prime minister of Qin for a few months, but someone slandered him. He was afraid of being killed, so he pretended to be sick and sent him back to Xiangyin. He was given the title Gangchengjun.
Cai Ze lived in Qin for more than ten years and served King Zhao, King Xiaowen and King Zhuang Xiang.
Finally, he served Qin Shihuang and served as an envoy to Yan. Three years later, Prince Dan of Yan went to Qin as a hostage.
Tai Shigong said: Han Feizi said: People with long sleeves are good at dancing, and people with more money are good at doing business.
This is very true! Fan Ju and Cai Ze are what people call a generation of debaters. However, those who lobbied the princes until they were gray-haired and did not find a confidant did not have poor strategies, but that the conditions for the lobbying to be effective were insufficient.
When the two of them settled in the Qin State, they were able to achieve the status of prime minister one after another, and their fame spread throughout the world. The reason was that the country's strength was different.
But there are also occasional opportunities for debaters. Many talented people like Fan Ju and Cai Ze do not give full play to their talents because they have no opportunities. How can these people say everything?
However, if the two of them do not encounter difficult situations, how can they work hard and make a difference?


