Chunk 0: 
original: 
孝顺皇帝讳保，安帝之子也。
母李氏，为阎皇后所害。
永宁元年，立为皇太子。延光三年，安帝乳母王圣、大长秋江京、中常侍樊丰谮太子乳母王男、厨监邴吉，杀之，太子数为叹息。
王圣等惧有后祸，遂与丰、京共构陷太子，太子坐废为济阴王。
明年三月，安帝崩，北乡侯立，济阴王以废黜，不得上殿亲临梓宫，悲号不食，内外群僚莫不哀之。
及北乡侯薨，车骑将军阎显及江京，与中常侍刘安、陈达等白太后，秘不发丧，而更征立诸国王子，乃闭宫门，屯兵自守。
十一月丁巳，京师及郡国十六地震。
是夜，中黄门孙程等十九人共斩江京、刘安、陈达等，迎济阴王于德阳殿西钟下，即皇帝位，年十一。
近臣尚书以下，从辇到南宫，登云台，召百官。
尚书令刘光等奏言： 孝安皇帝圣德明茂，早弃天下。
陛下正统，当奉宗庙，而奸臣交构，遂令陛下龙潜蕃国，群僚远近莫不失望。
天命有常，北乡不永。汉德盛明，福祚孔章。
translation: 
Filial piety to the emperor Mingbao, son of Emperor An.
His mother, Mrs. Li, was killed by Queen Yan.
In the first year of Yongning, he was established as the crown prince. In the third year of Yanguang, Emperor An's wet nurse Wang Sheng, Dachangqiu Jiang Jing, and Zhongchang Shi Fan Feng framed the prince's wet nurse Wang Nan and the kitchen supervisor Bing Ji. Wang Nan and Bing Ji were killed, and Prince Liu Bao sighed several times.
Wang Sheng and others were afraid of the consequences, so they worked with Fan Feng and Jiang Jing to frame Prince Liu Bao, who was deposed as King of Jiyin.
In March of the fourth year of Yanguang, Emperor An passed away. Liu Yi, the Marquis of Beixiang, became the emperor. Because Liu Bao, the king of Jiyin, was deposed, he was not allowed to attend the funeral in person at Emperor An's mourning hall. He wailed and refused to eat, and all officials inside and outside mourned for it.
When Emperor Liu Yi passed away, the Empress Dowager Yan's brother, the Chariot and Cavalry General Yan Xian and Jiang Jing, together with Liu An and Chen Da, reported to the Empress Dowager that they would not announce the mourning secretly, but planned to conscript another prince from various kingdoms as emperor. Liu Bao closed the palace gates tightly and stationed troops to defend himself.
On the fourth day of November, an earthquake occurred in sixteen places in the capital and prefectures.
That night, nineteen people including Sun Cheng from the Zhonghuang Gate worked together to kill Jiang Jing, Liu An, Chen Da and others, and welcomed Liu Bao, the King of Jiyin, under the west bell of Deyang Hall, and he ascended the throne at the age of eleven.
The ministers and ministers followed Chengyu to Nangong, climbed onto the cloud platform, and summoned all the officials.
The minister ordered Liu Guang and others to report: Emperor Xiaoan, a man of sage and virtue, abandoned the world prematurely.
The emperor is the orthodox successor and should inherit the ancestral temple and the state. However, due to the interference of treacherous ministers, the emperor became a vassal king from a prince. All civil and military officials in the world were disappointed.
Fortunately, destiny follows a normal pattern. Although the Marquis of Beixiang was established as emperor, he would not live forever, and the Han family's virtues and fortunes were outstanding.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
近臣建策，左右扶翼，内外同心，稽合神明。
陛下践祚，奉遵鸿绪，为郊庙主，承续祖宗无穷之烈，上当天心，下厌民望。
而即位仓卒，典章多缺，请条案礼仪，分别具奏。 制曰： 可。 乃召公卿百僚，使虎贲、羽林士屯南、北宫诸门。
阎显兄弟闻帝立，率兵入北宫，尚书郭镇与交锋刃，遂斩显弟卫尉景。
戊午，遣使者入省，夺得玺绶，乃幸嘉德殿，遣侍御史持节收阎显及其弟城门校尉耀、执金吾晏，并下狱诛。
己未，开门，罢屯兵。
壬戌，诏司隶校尉： 惟阎显、江京近亲当伏辜诛，其余务崇宽贷。 壬申，谒高庙。
癸酉，谒光武庙。
乙亥，诏益州刺史罢子午道，通褒斜路。
己卯，葬少帝以诸王礼。
司空刘授免。
赐公卿以下钱、谷各有差。
十二月甲申，以少府河南陶敦为司空。
令郡国守、相视事未满岁者，一切得举孝廉吏。
登卯，尚书奏请下有司，收还延光三年九月丁酉以皇太子为济阴王诏书。
奏可。
translation: 
Close ministers offer advice and suggestions, support the left and right wings, and work together internally and externally, in line with the will of the gods of heaven and earth.
The emperor succeeded to the throne, followed tradition, became the master of the suburban temple, inherited the heroes and martyrs of his ancestors, acted out of heaven's will, and fulfilled the people's wishes below.
However, he came to the throne in a hurry and there are many missing regulations. Please allow us to organize the rituals according to the rules and perform them separately.
The emperor ordered: Yes! So he summoned all officials and officials, and sent Huben Lang and Yu Linshi to guard the gates of the South and North Palaces. When the Yan Xian brothers heard that King Ji Yin was the emperor, they led troops into the North Palace. Shangshu Guo Zhen fought with them and killed Yan Xian's younger brother Wei Wei Yan Jing.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, envoys were sent to the palace to seize the seal. The emperor went to the Jiade Palace and sent his censor Shi Chijie to arrest Yan Xian and his younger brothers Chengmen School Captain Yan Yao and Zhijinwu Yan Yan and put them in prison for execution.
On the sixth day of the lunar month, the palace gate was opened and the heavy troops guarding the gate were removed.
On the ninth day of the lunar month, an order was issued to the commander-in-chief: Only close relatives of Yan Xian and Jiang Jing should be punished, and the rest must be forgiven and exempted without further investigation.
On the 19th, I visited Gaomiao. On the 20th, I visited Guangwu Temple.
On the 22nd, he ordered the governor of Yizhou to use the Baoxie Road instead of the Ziwu Road from Guanzhong to Hanzhong.
On the 26th, the young emperor Liu Yi, Marquis of Beixiang, was buried with royal rites.
Sikong Liu was dismissed from his post.
Reward the ministers and ministers with different amounts of money and cereals respectively.
On the first day of December, Tao Dun, Henan Province, was appointed Sikong.
If the governor of a county or state is ordered to look after a person for less than a year, he or she may recommend a filial and honest official.
On the 20th, the minister asked the administrator to return the edict issued on September 7, the third year of Yanguang's reign, deposing the crown prince Liu Bao as King Jiyin.
Get approval.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
京师大疫。
辛亥，诏公卿、郡守、国相，举贤良方正、能直言极谏之士各一人。
尚书令以下从辇幸南宫者，皆增秩赐布各有差。
永建元年春正月甲寅，诏曰： 先帝圣德，享祚未永，早弃鸿烈。
奸慝缘间，人庶怨讟，上干和气，疫疠为灾。
朕奉承大业，未能宁济。
盖至理之本，稽弘德惠，荡涤宿恶，与人更始。
其大赦天下。赐男子爵，人二级，为父后、三老、孝悌、力田人三级，流民欲自占者一级；鳏、寡、孤、独、笃癃、贫不能自存者粟，人五斛；贞妇帛，人三匹。
坐法当徙，勿徙；亡徒当传，勿传。
宗室以罪绝，皆复属籍。
其与阎显、江京等交通者，悉勿考。
勉修厥职，以康我民。
辛未，皇太后阎氏崩。
辛巳，太傅冯石、太尉刘熹、司徒李郃免。
二月甲申，葬安思皇后。
translation: 
A major epidemic occurred in the capital.
On the 28th, the ministers, county governors, and state ministers were ordered to recommend one person each who was virtuous and upright, and who dared to criticize and speak outright.
Under the order of the minister, those who followed Chengyu to Nangong were given increased official ranks and were given various rewards of cloth.
On the second day of the first spring of the first year of Yongjian's reign, the edict stated: "The late emperor was a sage and virtuous man, but he did not enjoy the throne for a long time and abandoned his great achievements prematurely."
The treacherous and evil people take advantage of the opportunity to cause chaos, causing resentment among the common people, disturbing the harmony of heaven and earth, and causing epidemics.
I inherited the great cause, but failed to stabilize the country and tide over the difficulties.
However, the most important thing in governing a country is to assess and carry forward virtues and benefits, eliminate accumulated resentments and bad habits, and start a new life.
Now a general amnesty is being granted to all men, with titles of two for each man, three for fathers, three elders, filial brothers, and Litian, and one for refugees who automatically return to the throne; widows, widows, orphans, singles, terminally ill, poor, and unable to survive are each given five dendrobiums of millet; women who observe integrity are each given three bolts of silk.
Those who commit crimes and should be moved to remote areas will not be moved; prisoners who are on the run should not be wanted if they are wanted.
Those who had severed ties with the Liu clan due to crimes were restored to their old affiliations.
Anyone involved in dealings with Yan Xian and Jiang Jing will not be investigated.
I hope everyone will do their job well and let the people live a peaceful and happy life.
On the 19th, Empress Dowager Yan passed away.
On the 29th, Taifu Feng Shi, Taiwei Liu Xi, and Situ Li were dismissed from their posts.
On the second day of February, Queen Ansi was buried.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
丙戌，太常桓焉为太傅；大鸿胪朱宠为太尉，参录尚书事；长乐少府九江朱伥为司徒。
赐百官随辇宿卫及拜除者布各有差。
陇西钟羌叛，护羌校尉马贤讨破之。
夏五月丁丑，诏幽、并、凉州刺史，使各实二千石以下至黄绶，年老劣弱不任军事者，上名。
严敕障塞，缮设屯备，立秋之后，简习戎马。
六月己亥，封济南王错子显为济南王。
秋七月庚午，卫尉来历为车骑将军。
八月，鲜卑寇代郡，代郡太守李超战殁。
九月辛亥，初令三公、尚书入奏事。
冬十月辛巳，诏减死罪以下徙边；其亡命赎，各有差。
丁亥，司空陶敦免。
鲜卑犯边。
庚寅，遣黎阳营兵出屯中山北界。告幽州刺史，其令缘边郡增置步兵，死屯塞下。
调五营弩师，郡举五人，令教习战射。
壬寅，廷尉张皓为司空。
translation: 
On the fourth day of the lunar month, Taichang Huanyan was appointed as Taifu; Dahonglu and Zhu Chong were appointed as Taiwei, and participated in the affairs of the general secretary; and Zhu Qian of Jiujiang, the Shaofu of Changle, was appointed as Situ.
The pieces of cloth used to reward hundreds of officials, accompany them on duty, stay as guards, and appoint officials vary greatly.
The Zhongqiang in Longxi rebelled, and Ma Xian, the captain of the Qiang Protector, attacked and defeated them.
On the twenty-seventh day of the fifth lunar month, the governors of You, Bing, and Liangzhou were ordered to verify that those who were less than 2,000 shi were sent to the county magistrate and county lieutenant, and those who were old, weak, and incompetent for military service were listed on the list.
Strictly organize the border fortifications and repair all equipment for garrison operations. After the beginning of autumn, troops and horses will be trained.
On June 19, Liu Xian, the son of King Liu Cuo of Jinan, was granted the title of King of Jinan.
On the 21st day of the seventh month in autumn, Ren Weiwei was appointed as a general of chariots and cavalry.
In August, Xianbei bandits raided Daijun, and Li Chao, the prefect of Daijun, died in battle.
On the third day of September, he began to order Sangong and Shangshu to enter the palace to report state affairs.
On the third day of the tenth lunar month in winter, prisoners with reduced or reduced capital crimes were ordered to move to border areas; those who escaped could atone for their sins, and the atonements varied.
On the ninth day of the lunar month, Sikong Taodun was dismissed.
Xianbei invaded the border areas.
On the 12th, the Liyang Battalion was sent to garrison the northern border of Zhongshan. He informed the governor of Youzhou and ordered the counties near the border to add more infantry and distribute them to garrison under the fortress.
Select five captains of crossbow divisions from Changshui, Infantry, Shesheng, Tunqi, and Chaqi. Each county recommends five people to teach them combat shooting techniques.
On the 24th, Tingwei Zhang Hao was appointed Sikong.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
甲辰，诏以疫疠水潦，令人半输今年田租；伤害什四以上，勿收责；不满者，以实除之。
十二月辛巳，赐王、主、贵人、公卿以下布各有差。
二年春正月戊申，乐安王鸿来朝。
丁卯，常山王章薨。
二月，鲜卑寇辽东、玄菟。
甲辰，诏禀贷荆、豫、兖、冀四州流冗贫人，所在安业之；疾病致医药。
护乌桓校尉耿晔率南单于击鲜卑，破之。
三月，旱，遣使者录囚徒。
疏勒国遣使奉献。
夏六月乙酉，追尊谥皇妣李氏为恭愍皇后，葬于恭北陵。
西域长史班勇、敦煌太守张朗讨焉耆、尉犁、危须三国，破之；并遣子贡献。
秋七月甲戌朔，日有食之。壬午，太尉朱宠、司徒朱伥罢。
庚子，太常刘光为太尉，录尚书事；光禄勋许敬为司徒。
辛丑，下邳王成薨。
三年春正月丙子，京师地震，汉阳地陷裂。
甲午，诏实核伤害者，赐年七岁以上钱，人二千；一家被害，郡县为收敛。
乙未，诏勿收汉阳今年田租、田赋。
夏四月癸卯，遣光禄大夫案行汉阳及河内、魏郡、陈留、东郡，禀贷贫人。
六月，旱。遣使者录囚徒，理轻系。
甲寅，济南王显薨。
秋七月丁酉，茂陵园寝灾，帝缟素避正殿。
辛亥，使太常王龚持节告祠茂陵。
九月，鲜卑寇渔阳。
冬十二月己亥，太傅桓焉免。
是岁，车骑将军来历罢。
translation: 
On the 26th, the edict issued an edict that due to the severe epidemic, the common people would lose half of their field rent this year; those who suffered more than four-tenths of the damage would not be charged rent; those who were not satisfied with this amount would be exempted based on the actual amount.
On the fourth day of the twelfth lunar month, various pieces of cloth will be given to the king, lord, nobles, and ministers.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the second year of spring, King Liu Hong of Le'an went to the palace to pay homage.
On the 20th of the first lunar month, Liu Zhang, the king of Changshan, passed away.
In February, the Xianbei bandits raided Liaodong and Xuantu.
On the 28th, the edict issued an order to provide grain relief to the poor people scattered in the four prefectures of Jing, Henan, Yan, and Yi. The local government would provide them with employment opportunities and provide medicine to those suffering from diseases.
Geng Ye, the captain of Huwuhuan, led Nan Shanyu to attack Xianbei and defeated them.
In March, there was a drought, and envoys were sent to inspect and record the crimes of the prisoners.
Shule State sent envoys to the court to offer gifts.
On the 11th day of the sixth lunar month in the summer, the imperial concubine Li was given the posthumous title of Queen Gongmin and was buried in Gongbeiling.
Ban Yong, the governor of the Western Regions, and Zhang Lang, the governor of Dunhuang, attacked the three kingdoms of Yanqi, Yuli, and Weixu, defeated them, and sent their sons to the court to contribute gifts.
On the first day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, there is a solar eclipse. On the ninth day of the lunar month, Taiwei Zhu Chong and Situ Zhu Chong were dismissed.
On the 27th, Taichang Liu Guang was appointed as Taiwei, in charge of Shangshu affairs; Guang Luxun and Xu Jing were appointed as Situ.
On the 28th, Liu Cheng, king of Xiapi, passed away.
On the sixth day of the first lunar month in the spring of the third year, there was an earthquake in the capital and the ground in Hanyang collapsed.
On the 24th, the edict issued an order to verify that those who were injured would be given two thousand dollars to each person over the age of seven. If the whole family was killed, the county would bury them.
On the 25th, the edict was issued not to collect land rent and population tax in Hanyang this year.
On the fourth day of April in the summer, Dr. Guanglu was sent to inspect Hanyang, Hanoi, Weijun, Chenliu, and Dongjun to provide grain loans to the poor.
In June, there was a drought, and envoys were sent to inspect and record the crimes of prisoners and to deal with minor criminals.
On the 15th, King Liu Xian of Jinan passed away.
On the 29th day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, a fire broke out in the Mausoleum Mausoleum, and the emperor wore white clothes to avoid the main hall.
In the year of 1911, King Taichang was sent to hold a talisman to offer sacrifices to Maoling.
In September, the Xianbei bandits raided Yuyang.
On the fourth day of the twelfth lunar month in winter, Grand Tutor Huan Yan was dismissed from his post.
This year, the general of chariots and cavalry was also dismissed.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
四年春正月丙寅，诏曰： 朕托王公之上，涉道日寡，政失厥中，阴阳气隔，寇盗肆暴，庶狱弥繁，忧悴永叹，疢如疾首。
《诗》云： 君子如祉，乱庶遄已。
三朝之会，朔旦立春，嘉与海内洗心自新。
其赦天下。
从甲寅赦令已来复秩属籍，三年正月已来还赎。
其阎显、江京等知识婚姻禁锢，一原除之。
务崇宽和，敬顺时令，遵典去苛，以称朕意。
丙子，帝加元服。
赐王、主、贵人、公卿以下金、帛各有差。
赐男子爵及流民欲占者人一级。为父后、三老、孝悌、力田人二级；鳏、寡、孤、独、笃癃、贫不能自存帛，人一匹。
二月戊戌，诏以民入山凿石，发泄藏气，敕有司检察所当禁绝，如建武、永平故事。
夏五月壬辰，诏曰： 海内颇有灾异，朝廷修政，太官减膳，珍玩不御。
而桂阳太守文砻，不惟竭忠，宣畅本朝，而远献大珠，以求幸媚，今封以还之。
五州雨水。
translation: 
On the first day of the first lunar month in the spring of the fourth year, the edict said: I am high above the princes, and my research on the road is becoming less and less day by day. As a result, the national government is out of balance, the yin and yang of the heaven and earth are not smooth, bandits are rampant and violent, and various lawsuits are increasing.
"The Book of Songs" says: A gentleman is blessed, a virtuous man is rewarded, and chaos will be quickly stopped.
The first day of the first lunar month is the beginning of the three dynasties of year, month and day. The morning of the first day of the lunar month is also the beginning of spring. Such a good time rewards and favors people from all over the world to refresh themselves.
Now there is amnesty for the whole world.
Since the amnesty order on the second day of the first spring of the first year of Yongjian's reign, his official rank and affiliation have been restored, and he has been redeemed since the first month of the third year.
As for those who are imprisoned due to social interactions or marriage relationships with Yan Xian, Jiang Jing, etc., they will be exempted.
You must seek forgiveness and peace, devoutly comply with the seasons, follow the laws and avoid harshness, and do what is right for me.
On the eleventh day, the emperor crowned him.
Reward the king, lord, nobles, and ministers with gold and silk in varying degrees.
Reward men with a title of nobility and refugees who voluntarily return to their homeland, each with one level of title; those who are fathers, three elders, filial brothers, and Litian each with two levels of title; each person who is a widower, a widow, an orphan, alone, terminally ill, or poor and unable to survive will receive a bolt of silk.
On the fourth day of the second lunar month, the imperial edict ordered officials to conduct inspections because civilians went into the mountains to cut rocks and vent their hidden qi. What should be prohibited was the same as what was done in the Jianwu era of Emperor Zhaoguang and the Yongping era of Emperor Ming.
On the 29th day of the fifth lunar month in the summer, the edict said: "There are serious disasters in the country. The imperial court should do a good job in government affairs. The eunuchs will reduce their meals and not wear precious toys."
However, Wenlong, the prefect of Guiyang, did not devote himself to his duties and promote the teachings of his dynasty. Instead, he presented the pearl from afar in the hope of gaining favor and achieving the purpose of flattery. This was so inappropriate that it is now sealed and returned to him.
Rain in five states.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
秋八月庚子，遣使实核死亡，收敛禀赐。
丁巳，太尉刘光、司空张皓免。
九月，复安定、北地、上郡归旧土。
癸酉，大鸿胪庞参为太尉，录尚书事。
太常王龚为司空。
冬十一月庚辰，司徒许敬免。
鲜卑寇朔方。
十二月乙卯，宗正刘崎为司徒。
是岁，分会稽为吴郡。
拘弥国遣使贡献。
五年春正月，疏勒王遣侍子，及大宛、莎车王皆奉使贡献。
夏四月，京师旱。
辛巳，诏郡国贫人被灾者，勿收责今年过更。
京师及郡国十二蝗。
冬十月丙辰，诏郡国中都官死罪系囚皆减罪一等，诣北地、上郡、安定戍。
乙亥，定远侯班始坐杀其妻阴城公主，腰斩，同产皆弃市。
六年春二月庚午，河间王开薨。
三月辛亥，复伊吾屯田，复置伊吾司马一人。
秋九月辛巳，缮起太学。
护乌桓校尉耿晔遣兵击鲜卑，破之。
translation: 
On the eighth day of the eighth lunar month in autumn, envoys were sent to verify the deceased, bury them, and provide grain to their families.
On the 25th, Taiwei Liu Guang and Sikong Zhang Hao were dismissed from their posts.
In September, stability was restored, and Beidi and Shangjun returned to their old lands.
On the twelfth day, Dahonglu Pang Can was appointed Taiwei and took charge of the affairs of the minister.
King Gong of Taichang was Sikong.
On November 20th in winter, Situ Xu Jing was dismissed from office.
The Xianbei bandits plundered Shuofang.
On December 25, Zongzheng and Liu Qi were appointed as Situ.
In this year, Kuaiji was divided into Wu County.
The Kumi Kingdom sent envoys to the court to offer gifts.
In the spring of the fifth year and the first month of the first month, King Shule sent his son to serve in the court, and the kings of Dayuan and Shache both sent envoys to offer gifts to the court.
In April of summer, there was a drought in the capital.
On the 24th, the poor people in the counties and counties who suffered disasters were ordered not to receive money or goods from the three days of guarding the border this year.
Twelve locust plagues hit the capital and prefectures.
On the first day of the tenth lunar month in winter, the imperial edict was issued to the commander-in-chief of the county and state to reduce the sentences of prisoners in custody to one level and send them to Beidi, Shangjun, and Anding to guard the border.
On the 20th, Hou Banshi of Dingyuan was beheaded in half for killing his wife, Princess Yincheng. Both his mother and brothers were killed in the downtown area and their bodies were abandoned.
On the 17th day of the second month in the sixth year of spring, Liu Kai, the king of Hejian, passed away.
On March 29, Yiwu's farming was restored, and Yiwu's Sima was restored.
On the second day of the ninth lunar month in autumn, the Imperial Academy was repaired.
Geng Ye, the captain of Huhuan Huan, sent troops to attack Xianbei and defeated them.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
丁酉，于阗王遣侍子贡献。
冬十一月辛亥，诏曰： 连年灾潦，冀部尤甚。
比蠲除实伤，赡恤穷匮，而百姓犹有弃业，流亡不绝。
疑郡县用心怠惰，恩泽不宣。
《易》美 损上益下 ，《书》称 安民则惠 。
其令冀部勿收今年田租、刍稿。
十二月，日南徼外叶调国、掸国遣使贡献。
壬申，客星出牵牛。
于阗王遣侍子诣阙贡献。
阳嘉元年春正月乙巳，立皇后梁氏。
赐爵，人二级，三老、孝悌、力田三级，爵过公乘，得移与子若同产、同产子，民无名数及流民欲占著者人一级；鳏、寡、孤、独、笃癃、贫不能自存者粟，人五斛。
二月，海贼曾旌等寇会稽，杀句章、鄞、鄮三县长，攻会稽东部都尉。
诏缘海县各屯兵戍。
translation: 
On the 18th, the King of Khotan sent his son to the court to serve him and give him gifts.
On the eleventh day of the twelfth lunar month in winter, the edict said: "There have been years of disasters, especially in the Hebei region."
The land rent of the affected areas was immediately exempted, and relief was given to the poor owners. But the people still abandoned their production and wandered endlessly to escape famine.
I suspect that the prefectures and counties have lazy intentions and do not care about the masses, and the benevolence of the imperial court has not been publicized.
"The Book of Changes" says: If the excess wealth above is given to those below who have insufficient wealth, then people will be happy beyond measure. "The Book of Books" says: If you stabilize people's lives and benefit them, the people of Li will always miss you.
Now we order the land in Hebei not to charge this year’s field rent or draft.
In December, Rinan Waiye Tiaoguo and Shan State sent envoys to present gifts.
On the 24th, the guest star that flickered in and out appeared near Altair.
The King of Khotan sent his son to serve in the court and gave him gifts.
On the twenty-eighth day of the first spring of the first year of Yangjia, Queen Liang was established.
The title of nobility is given to each person at the second level, and to each of the three elders, filial piety, and Litian, the third level. If the title is higher than the public title, the title can be transferred to the son or the half-brother or the son of the same mother brother. Each person without household registration and the refugee will be automatically returned to the first level. Each person who is widowed, widowed, alone, alone, terminally ill, or poor and unable to survive will be given five dendrobiums of millet.
In February, the pirate Zeng Jing and other bandits plundered Kuaiji, killed the three county magistrates Juzhang, Yin, and Maoqu, and attacked the eastern captain of Kuaiji.
The counties near the sea were ordered to garrison troops.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
丁巳，皇后谒高庙、光武庙，诏禀甘陵贫人，大小口各有差。
京师旱。
庚申，敕郡国二千石各祷名山岳渎，遣大夫、谒者诣嵩高、首阳山，并祠河、洛，请雨。
戊辰，雩。
以冀部比年水潦，民食不赡，诏案行禀贷，劝农功，赈乏绝。
甲戌，诏曰： 政失厥和，阴阳隔并，冬鲜宿雪，春无澍雨。
分祷祈请，靡神不萗。
深恐在所慢违 如在 之义，今遣侍中王辅等，持节分诣岱山、东海、荥阳、河、洛，尽心祈焉。
三月，杨州六郡妖贼章河等寇四十九县，杀伤长吏。
庚寅，帝临辟雍飨射，大赦天下，改元阳嘉。
诏宗室绝属籍者，一切复籍；禀冀州尤贫民，勿收今年更、租、口赋。
夏五月戊寅，阜陵王恢薨。
秋七月，史官始作候风地动铜仪。
translation: 
On the tenth day of the lunar month, the queen paid homage to Gaomiao and Guangwu Temples, and issued an order to provide grains to the poor people in Ganling, with varying amounts for adults and children.
There is a drought in the capital.
On the 13th, he ordered two thousand stones from the prefecture and the state to pray at the famous mountain Yuedu, and sent officials and envoys to Songgao and Shouyang Mountains to pray for the Yellow River and Luoshui to pray for rain.
On the 21st, a ceremony to pray for rain was held.
Because the land in Hebei has been suffering from water shortages for many years and the people have insufficient food, they ordered inspections to understand the situation, loaned grain from the farmland, persuaded the farmers to work hard on the farm, and provided relief to those who were particularly difficult and unable to live.
In Jiaxu, the edict said: If the state is in disarray, the yin and yang will not be harmonious. There is little snow in winter and no good rain in spring.
So I prayed to the mountains, rivers, sun, moon and stars to avoid disasters.
Fearing that the place of worship was too simple and violated the meaning of "sacrifice to the gods as if the gods were present", we sent Wang Fu and others holding talismans to the Daishan, Donghai, Xingyang, Yellow River and Luoshui rivers to pray with all their heart to ward off disasters and bring blessings.
In March, the demon thief Zhang He and other bandits from six counties in Yangzhou plundered forty-nine counties, killing and wounding officials.
On the thirteenth day, the emperor came to Piyong, held a banquet and performed a great shooting ceremony, and granted amnesty to the world, changing it to Yuanyangjia.
The imperial edict ordered the Liu family to cut off their affiliations and restore all their affiliations to their original affiliations; for those who were particularly poor in Jizhou to receive grain grain relief loans, this year's new tax, land rent, and population tax would not be collected.
On the second day of the fifth lunar month in the summer, Liu Hui, king of Fuling, passed away.
In the seventh month of autumn, Taishi ordered Zhang Heng to start making bronze instruments to wait for the wind and earth to move.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
丙辰，以太学新成，试明经下第者补弟子，增甲、乙科员各十人。
除郡国耆儒九十人补郎、舍人。
九月，诏郡国中都官系囚皆减死一等，亡命者赎，各有差。
鲜卑寇辽东。
冬十一月甲申，望都、蒲阴狼杀女子九十七人，诏赐狼所杀者钱，人三千。
辛卯，初令郡国举孝廉，限年四十以上，诸生通章句，文吏能笺奏，乃得应选；其有茂才异行，若颜渊、子奇，不拘年齿。
十二月丁未，东平王敞薨。
庚戌，复置玄菟郡屯田六部。
闰月丁亥，令诸以诏除为郎，年四十以上课试如孝廉科者，得参廉选，岁举一人。
戊子，客星出天苑。
《书》歌股肱，《诗》刺三事。今刺史、二千石之选，归任三司。
其简序先后，精核高下，岁月之次，文武之宜，务存厥衷。 庚子，恭陵百丈庑灾。
是岁，起西苑，修饰宫殿。
二年春二月甲申，诏以吴郡、会稽饥荒，贷人种粮。
三月，使匈奴中郎将王稠率左骨都侯等击鲜卑，破之。
辛酉，除京师耆儒年六十以上四十八人补郎、舍人及诸王国郎。
translation: 
In Bingchen, due to the new success of Taixue, the number of disciples in the Ming Jing examination was increased by ten, and the number of students in subjects A and B was increased by ten.
Ninety senior scholars in the county were appointed as Lang and Sheren.
In September, the imperial edict was issued to all the officials in the prefecture and state to reduce the penalty of death to one level for prisoners, and to make atonement for escapes.
The Xianbei bandits raided Liaodong.
On the eleventh day of the eleventh month in winter, wolves in Wangdu and Puyin devoured ninety-seven women. The edict ordered that each of the women killed by the wolves be given 3,000 yuan.
On the 18th, the county government began to order the recommendation of filial and honest officials, who must be over forty years old. All students must be proficient in chapter and sentence, and civil servants must be able to write notes and memorials before they can be selected. Those who have real talent, practical knowledge, and outstanding virtues, such as Yan Yuan and Zi Qi, are regardless of age.
On the fifth day of December, Liu Chang, King of Dongping, passed away.
On the eighth day of the lunar month, the six tuntian divisions of Xuantu County were restored.
On the 15th day of the twelfth lunar month, it was ordered that those who were appointed as Lang due to imperial edicts and were over forty years old and passed the examination and examination as filial piety and integrity could participate in the election of filial piety and integrity, and one person would be elected every year.
On the 16th, a guest star appeared in Tianyuan.
The Book of Documents praises the wise head of state and his assistants. The Book of Songs satirizes the laziness of those officials and princes who are unwilling to work day and night on government affairs. Now it is stipulated that the candidates for the governor and Erqianshi are all selected and appointed by Taiwei, Sikong and Situ.
The order of selection, careful assessment of superiority and inferiority, the order of time and time, and the decision of whether to serve as a civil servant or a military officer must be in line with the original intention. On the 28th, a fire broke out in the house next to the Baizhang Hall of Emperor An's Gongling Mausoleum.
This year, Xiyuan was built and the palace was renovated.
On February 13, in the spring of the second year, the imperial edict was issued to lend seed rations to the people due to famine in Wu County and Kuaiji.
In March, the Xiongnu Zhonglang general Wang Chou led Zuo Guduhou and others to attack Xianbei and defeated them.
On the 21st, forty-eight old and learned Confucian scholars over sixty years old in the capital were appointed as Bu Lang, Shi Ren and other Wang Guo Lang.


Chunk 10: 
original: 
夏四月，复置陇西南部都尉官。
己亥，京师地震。
五月庚子，诏曰： 朕以不德，统奉鸿业，无以奉顺乾坤，协序阴阳，灾眚屡见，咎征仍臻。
地动之异，发自京师，矜矜祗畏，不知所裁。
群公卿士将何以匡辅不逮，奉答戒异？
异不空设，必有所应，其各悉心直言厥咎，靡有所讳。 戊午，司空王龚免。
六月辛未，太常鲁国孔扶为司空。
疏勒国献师子、封牛。
丁丑，洛阳地陷。
是月，旱。
秋七月己未，太尉庞参免。
八月己巳，大鸿胪沛国施延为太尉。
鲜卑寇代郡。
冬十月庚午，行礼辟雍，奏应钟，始复黄钟，作乐器随月律。
三年春二月己丑，诏以久旱，京师诸狱无轻重皆且勿考竟，须得澍雨。
三月庚戌，益州盗贼劫质令长，杀列侯。
translation: 
In April of summer, the captaincy of southwestern Longnan was restored.
On the 29th, there was an earthquake in the capital.
On the first day of the fifth lunar month, the edict said: I inherit the emperor's legacy with a weak virtue, but I am not enough to conform to the universe and coordinate yin and yang. As a result, natural disasters occur frequently, and blame and punishment follow one after another.
Unusual events like the earthquake, starting from the capital, made me tremble and fear, and I didn’t know what to do.
All the ministers and officials, how should you help me overcome my shortcomings and repay God for this special warning to me?
Unusual changes are not imaginary, there must be actual corresponding things. I sincerely hope that everyone will speak out about my mistakes and don't worry about concealing them. On the 19th, Sikong Wang Gong was dismissed.
On the second day of the sixth lunar month, Kong Fu of Taichang Lu was appointed Sikong.
Shule State presented lions and oxen.
On the eighth day of the lunar month, Luoyang collapsed.
This month, there is drought.
On the 20th day of the seventh month in autumn, Taiwei Pang Shen was dismissed from his post.
On the first day of August, Shi Yan, Taihong of Peiguo, was appointed as Taiwei.
Xianbei invaded Daijun.
On the third day of the tenth lunar month in winter, a sacrificial ceremony was held in Piyong, the bell was played, and the yellow bell began to be restored. From then on, it was used as a musical instrument and the old canon was restored according to the provisions of the "Moon Order".
On February 24, in the spring of the third year, the imperial court believed that due to the long drought, the prisoners in various prisons in the capital, regardless of the severity of their crimes, would not be questioned and investigated for the time being. They would be dealt with after heavy rains.
On March 15, Yizhou thieves took the commander hostage and killed the princes.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
夏四月丙寅，车师后部司马率后部王加特奴等掩击匈奴，大破之，获其季母。
五月戊戌，制诏曰： 昔我太宗，丕显之德，假于上下，俭以恤民，政致康乂。
朕秉事不明，政失厥道，天地谴怒，大变仍见。
春夏连旱，寇贼弥繁，元元被害，朕甚愍之。
嘉与海内洗心更始。
其大赦天下，自殊死以下谋反大逆诸犯不当得赦者，皆赦除之。
赐民年八十以上米，人一斛，肉二十斤，酒五斗；九十以上加赐帛，人二匹，絮三斤。
秋七月庚戌，钟羌寇陇西、汉阳。
冬十月，护羌校尉马续击破之。
十一月壬寅，司徒刘崎、司空孔扶免。
乙巳，大司农南郡黄尚为司徒，光禄勋河东王卓为司空。
丙午，武都塞上屯羌及外羌攻破屯官，驱略人畜。
四年春二月丙子，初听中官得以养子为后，世袭封爵。
自去冬旱，至于是月。
谒者马贤击钟羌，大破之。
translation: 
On the second day of April in the summer, Sima from the rear of the chariot division led the rear Wang Jiatnu and others to attack the Xiongnu. The Xiongnu were defeated and captured the aunt of the Xiongnu Chanyu.
On the fourth day of the fifth lunar month, the emperor issued an edict: In the past, I, Emperor Taizong, had great merits and virtues, was beautiful to everyone above and below, was thrifty and compassionate to the people, and thus the political situation was stable.
As for me, I am not smart in handling things, and I am biased in national affairs. Heaven and earth are angry and condemn me, and huge changes occur again and again.
There were droughts in spring and summer, and there were more and more thieves. The common people suffered a lot, and I felt very sorry for them.
Now I am receiving preferential treatment at home, changing my mind, picking myself up, and starting all over again.
A general amnesty will be granted to the whole country. From the crime of beheading to the next, except those who commit treason and commit treason and should not be pardoned, all the crimes will be pardoned.
Each commoner who is over eighty years old will be rewarded with one bushel of rice, twenty catties of meat, and five measures of wine; those who are over ninety years old will be rewarded with two bolts of silk and three catties of cotton.
On the seventeenth day of the seventh month in autumn, the Zhongqiang bandits raided Longxi and Hanyang.
In the tenth month of winter, Feng Xu, the Colonel Protector of the Qiang, defeated them.
On November 11, Situ Liuqi and Sikong Kongfu were dismissed from office.
On the 14th, Huang Shang of Dasinongnan County was appointed as Situ, and Guangluxun Hedong Wang Zhuo was appointed as Sikong.
On the 15th, Wudu blocked the Tun Qiang and Wai Qiang, attacked the Tun officials, drove away and robbed our people and livestock.
On February 16, the fourth year in the spring, eunuchs were allowed to adopt sons as descendants and be granted hereditary titles.
From the drought last winter until February this year.
The visitor Ma Xian attacked Zhong Qiang and defeated them severely.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
夏四月甲子，太尉施延免。
戊寅，执金吾梁商为大将军，前太尉庞参为太尉。
六月己未，梁王匡薨。
秋七月己亥，济北王登薨。
闰月丁亥朔，日有食之。冬十月，乌桓寇云中。
十一月，围度辽将军耿晔于兰池，发诸郡兵救之，乌桓退走。
十二月甲寅，京师地震。
永和元年春正月，夫馀王来朝。
乙卯，诏曰： 朕秉政不明，灾眚屡臻。典籍所忌，震食为重。
今日变方远，地摇京师，咎征不虚，必有所应。
群公百僚其各上封事，指陈得失，靡有所讳。 己巳，宗祀明堂，登灵台，改元永和，大赦天下。
秋七月，偃师蝗。
冬十月丁亥，承福殿火，帝避御云台。
十一月丙子，太尉庞参罢。
十二月，象林蛮夷叛。
乙巳，以前司空王龚为太尉。
二年春正月，武陵蛮叛，围充县，又寇夷道。
二月，广汉属国都尉击破白马羌。
武陵太守李进击叛蛮，破之。
三月辛亥，北海王翼薨。
乙卯，司空王卓薨。
丁丑，光禄勋冯翊郭虔为司空。
translation: 
On the fifth day of the fourth lunar month in the summer, Taiwei Shi Yan was dismissed from his post.
On the 14th, Liang Shang was appointed general, and Pang Shen, the former Taiwei, was appointed Taiwei.
On the first day of June, Liang Wang Liu Kuang passed away.
On the twelfth day of the seventh month in autumn, Liu Deng, the king of Jibei, passed away.
On the first day of the eighth leap month, there is a solar eclipse. In the tenth month of winter, the Wuhuan bandits raided the clouds.
In November, he surrounded General Geng Ye of Liao in Lanchi and mobilized troops from various counties to rescue him, but Wuhuan retreated.
On December 30, there was an earthquake in the capital.
In the first month of spring in the first year of Yonghe, King Fuyu came to pay homage.
On the first day of the Lunar New Year, the edict said: My politics are unclear and disasters occur frequently. The most taboo in the classics are earthquakes and solar eclipses.
Although the solar eclipse is far away, there is an earthquake in the capital. This kind of evil omen is not illusory, it must be a reflection of real things.
I hope that all officials and officials can put forward their opinions in secret and point out the pros and cons without any scruples about concealing anything. On the 15th, sacrifices were held in Mingtang, ascended to the spiritual platform, changed to Yuan Yonghe, and granted amnesty to the world.
In the seventh month of autumn, there was a locust plague in Yanshi.
On the seventh day of the tenth lunar month in winter, there was a fire in the Chengfu Palace, and the emperor took refuge in Yuntai.
On November 27, Taiwei Pang Shen was dismissed from his post.
In December, the Xianglin barbarians rebelled.
On the 26th, the former Sikong King Gong was appointed Taiwei.
In the spring and first month of the second year, the Wuling barbarians rebelled, surrounded the county, and harassed the barbarians.
In February, the captain of the vassal state of Guanghan defeated the Baima Qiang.
Li Jin, the governor of Wuling, attacked the rebels and defeated them.
On the fourth day of March, Liu Yi, King of Beihai, passed away.
On the eighth day of the lunar month, Sikong Wangzhuo passed away.
On the 30th, Guang Luxun, Feng Yi and Guo Qian were appointed Sikong.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
夏四月丙申，京师地震。
五月，日南叛蛮攻郡府。
秋七月，九真、交阯二郡兵反。
八月庚子，荧惑犯南斗。
江夏盗贼杀邾长。
冬十月甲申，行幸长安，所过鳏、寡、孤、独、贫不能自存者赐粟，人五斛。
庚子，幸未央宫，会三辅郡守、都尉及官属，劳赐作乐。
十一月丙午，祠高庙。
丁未，遂有事十一陵。丁卯，京师地震。
十二月乙亥，至自长安。
三年春二月乙亥，京师及金城、陇西地震，二郡山岸崩，地陷。
戊子，太白犯荧惑。
夏四月，九江贼蔡伯流寇郡界，及广陵，杀江都长。
戊戌，遣光禄大夫案行金城、陇西，赐压死者年七岁以上钱，人二千；一家皆被害，为收敛之。
除今年田租，尤甚者勿收口赋。
闰月，蔡伯流等率众诣徐州刺史应志降。
己酉，京师地震。
五月，吴郡丞羊珍反，攻郡府，太守王衡破斩之。
translation: 
On April 19th in the summer, there was an earthquake in the capital.
In May, Rinan rebelled against the barbarians and attacked the county government.
In the seventh month of autumn, soldiers from Jiuzhen and Jiaozhi counties rebelled.
On August 25th, Mars will oppose the Southern Dipper.
Jiangxia thieves killed the magistrate of Zhu County.
On the tenth day of the tenth month in winter, the emperor arrived in Chang'an. Wherever he passed, everyone who was widowed, widowed, lonely, alone, or poor and unable to survive was given five husks of millet.
On the 26th, the emperor went to Weiyang Palace to meet with the three auxiliary prefects, captains and officials to express their condolences, rewards and have fun.
On the second day of November, sacrifices are held in Gaomiao.
On the third day of the lunar month, worship at the Eleven Tombs. On the 23rd, there was an earthquake in the capital.
On the second day of December, the emperor returned to Luoyang from Chang'an.
On the third day of the second month in the spring of the third year, there was an earthquake in the capital, Jincheng, and Longxi. The mountain banks of the two counties collapsed and the ground collapsed.
On the 16th, Taibai will oppose Mars.
In April of summer, the Jiujiang bandit Cai Bo and his bandits harassed the county boundaries and went to Guangling to kill the Jiangdu County Magistrate.
On the 27th, Dr. Guanglu was sent to inspect Jincheng and Longxi, and each person over seven years old who was crushed to death by the earthquake was given 2,000 yuan. After the whole family was killed, the burial was carried out.
This year’s field rent will be waived. If the disaster is more severe, no population tax will be collected.
In leap April, Cai Boliu and others led his troops to surrender in front of Xuzhou Governor Yingzhi.
On the eighth day of the lunar month, there was an earthquake in the capital.
In May, Yangzhen, the chief minister of Wujun, rebelled and attacked the county government. Wang Heng, the prefect, defeated and killed him.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
六月辛丑，琅邪王遵薨。
九真太守祝良、交阯刺史张乔慰诱日南叛蛮，降之，岭外平。
秋七月丙戌，济北王多薨。
八月己未，司徒黄尚免。
九月己酉，光禄勋长沙刘寿为司徒。
丙戌，令大将军、三公各举故刺史、二千石及见令、长、郎、谒者、四府掾属刚毅武猛有谋谟任将帅者各二人，特进、卿、校尉各一人。
冬十月，烧当羌寇金城，护羌校尉马贤击破之，羌遂相招而叛。
十二月戊戌朔，日有食之。
四年春正月庚辰，中常侍张逵、蘧政、杨定等有罪诛，连及弘农太守张凤、安平相杨晧，下狱死。
三月乙亥，京师地震。
夏四月癸卯，护羌校尉马贤讨烧当羌，大破之。
戊午，大赦天下。
赐民爵及粟、帛各有差。
五月戊辰，封故济北惠王寿子子安为济北王。
秋八月，太原郡旱，民庶流冗。
translation: 
On the first day of June, Liu Zun, the king of Langfu, passed away.
Zhu Liang, the governor of Jiuzhen, and Zhang Qiao, the governor of Jiaozhi, expressed their condolences and induced Rinan to rebel against the barbarians, causing them to surrender and calm outside the mountains.
On the seventeenth day of the seventh month in autumn, Liu Duo, king of Jibei, passed away.
On August 20, Situ Huangshang was dismissed.
In September Jiyou, Guang Luxun and Changsha Liu Shou were appointed as Situ.
On the 17th, the general and the three princes were ordered to recommend two former governors, two thousand stones, and county magistrates, chiefs, ministers, yezhe, and subordinates of the four prefectures who were resolute, strong, capable, strategic, and able to serve as generals, and one person each for special Jin, Qing, and Xiaowei.
In the tenth month of winter, the Qiang invaders burned Jincheng, and Ma Xian, the Qiang school captain who protected them, defeated them. The Qiang people then attracted rebellion among themselves.
On the first day of December, there is a solar eclipse.
On the 13th day of the first lunar month in the spring of the fourth year, Zhang Kui, Zang Zheng, and Yang Ding, the ministers in charge of the imperial court, were found guilty and executed. Together with Zhang Feng, the prefect of Hongnong, and Yang Hao, the prime minister of Anping, they were imprisoned.
On the ninth day of March, there was an earthquake in the capital.
On the eighth day of the fourth lunar month in the summer, Ma Xian, the captain of the Qiang Protector Corps, attacked the Shaodang Qiang and defeated them.
On the 23rd, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
The people were rewarded with titles, grain, and silk in varying degrees.
On the third day of May, Liu An, the late King Hui of Jibei and Liu Shouzi, was granted the title of King of Jibei.
In autumn and August, there was a drought in Taiyuan County, and the common people fled into exile.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
癸丑，遣光禄大夫案行禀贷，除更赋。
冬十月戊午，校猎上林苑，历函谷关而还。
十一月丙寅，幸广成苑。
五年春二月戊申，京师地震。
夏四月庚子，中山王弘薨。
南匈奴左部句龙大人吾斯、车纽等叛，围美稷。
五月，度辽将军马续讨吾斯、车纽，破之，使匈奴中郎将陈龟迫杀南单于。
己丑晦，日有食之。目冻羌寇三辅，杀令长。
丁丑，令死罪以下及亡命赎，各有差。
九月，令扶风、汉阳筑陇道坞三百所，置屯兵。
辛未，太尉王龚罢。
且冻羌寇武都，烧陇关。
壬午，太常桓焉为太尉。
丁亥，徙西河郡居离石，上郡居夏阳，朔方居五原。
句龙吾斯等东引乌桓，西收羌胡，寇上郡，立车纽为单于。
冬十一月辛巳，遣使匈奴中郎将张耽击破之，车纽降。
translation: 
On the 20th, Dr. Guanglu was sent to inspect and inspect, and he used the grain from Lingu to lend relief and exempted the taxes for border guards.
On October 26th in winter, we hunted in Shanglin Garden and returned to the palace via Hangu Pass.
On the fourth day of November, the emperor arrived at Guangcheng Garden.
On February 17, in the spring of the fifth year, there was an earthquake in the capital.
On the tenth day of the fourth lunar month in the summer, Liu Hong, the king of Zhongshan, passed away.
Wusi, Cheniu and others from the left wing of the Southern Huns rebelled and besieged Meiji County.
In the fifth month, General Du Liao, Ma Xu, attacked Wusi and Cheniu, defeated them, and sent an envoy, the Xiongnu Zhonglang, to force Chen Guijin to kill Nan Shanyu.
On the 30th, there is a solar eclipse. And the frozen Qiang bandits robbed Sanfu and killed the county magistrate and the county magistrate.
Ding Chou ordered prisoners under the death penalty and those who escaped to atone for their sins, respectively.
In September, he ordered Fufeng and Hanyang to build 300 earthen barriers for Long Road defense and station troops to guard them.
On the 14th, Taiwei Wang Gong was dismissed.
Moreover, the frozen Qiang bandits looted Wudu and burned Longguan.
On the 25th, Taichang Huanyan was appointed Taiwei.
On the 30th, the capital of Xihe County was moved to Lishi, the capital of Shang County was moved to Xia Yang, and the capital of Shuofang County was moved to Wuyuan.
The southern Xiongnu Julongwusi and others led Wuhuan to the east and Qianghu to the west. They raided Shangjun and established Cheniu as the chanyu.
On the 25th day of the eleventh month in winter, Zhang Dan was sent to defeat them, and Cheniu surrendered.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
六年春正月丙子，征西将军马贤与且冻羌战于射姑山，贤军败没，安定太守郭璜下狱死。
诏贷王、侯国租一岁。
闰月，恐唐羌寇陇西，遂及三辅。
二月丁巳，有星孛于营室。
三月，武威太守赵冲讨巩唐羌，破之。
庚子，司空郭虔免。
乙巳，河间王政薨。
丙午，太仆赵戒为司空。
夏五月庚子，齐王无忌薨。
使匈奴中郎将张耽大破乌桓、羌胡于天山。
恐唐羌寇北地。
秋七月甲午，诏假民有赀者户钱一千。
八月丙辰，大将军梁商薨；壬戌，河南尹梁冀为大将军。
九月，诸种羌寇武威。
辛亥晦，日有食之。冬十月癸丑，徙安定居扶风，北地居冯翔。
十一月庚子，以执金吾张乔行车骑将军事，将兵屯三辅。
汉安元年春正月癸巳，宗祀明堂，大赦天下，改元汉安。
translation: 
On the twenty-first day of the first month of the sixth year of spring, Ma Xian, the general who conquered the west, fought with the Qie Dong Qiang in Shegu Mountain. Ma Xian's army was defeated, and Guo Huang, the prefect of Anding, was imprisoned and died.
The imperial edict exempted the king and marquis from renting their land for one year.
In the first month of the leap year, the Gongtang Qiang bandits raided Longxi and affected the Sanfu area.
On the third day of February, the comet was seen in the camp star, one of the twenty-eight constellations.
In March, Zhao Chong, the governor of Wuwei, attacked Gongtang Qiang and defeated them.
On the 16th, Sikong Guo Qian was dismissed.
On the 21st, Liu Zheng, the king of Hejian, passed away.
On the 22nd, he appointed the imperial servant Zhao Jie as Sikong.
On the 17th day of the fifth lunar month, King Liu Wuji of Qi passed away.
He sent the Xiongnu Zhonglang General Zhang Dan to defeat Wuhuan and Qianghu in the Tianshan Mountains.
Gongtang Qiang bandits raided the north.
On the 12th day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, the common people were ordered to borrow a thousand dollars from each wealthy household.
On the fourth day of August, General Liang Shang passed away; on the tenth day of August, Yin Liangji of Henan Province became the general.
In September, various Qiang bandits raided Wuwei.
On the 30th, there is a solar eclipse. On the second day of October in winter, the capital of Anding was moved to Fufeng, and the capital of Beidi was moved to Feng Yi.
On November 20th, Jinwu Zhang Qiao acted as the general of chariots and cavalry, and commanded the troops to garrison the third auxiliary.
On the fourteenth day of the first spring of the first year of Han'an, a memorial ceremony was held in Mingtang, and a general amnesty was granted to the whole country, and the name was changed to Han'an.


Chunk 17: 
original: 
二月丙辰，诏大将军、公、卿举贤良方正、能探赜索隐者各一人。
秋七月，始置承华厩。
八月，南匈奴左部大人句龙吾斯与薁鞬台耆等反叛。
丁卯，遣侍中杜乔，光禄大夫周举，守光禄大夫郭遵、冯羡、栾巴、张纲、周栩、刘班等八人分行州、郡，班宣风化，举实臧否。
九月庚寅，广陵盗贼张婴等寇郡县。
冬十月辛未，太尉桓焉、司徒刘寿免。
甲戌，行车骑将军张乔罢。
十一月壬午，司隶校尉赵峻为太尉，大司农胡广为司徒。
癸卯，诏大将军、三公选武猛试用有效验任为将校者各一人。
是岁，广陵贼张婴等诣太守张纲降。
二年春二月丙辰，鄯善国遣使贡献。
夏四月庚戌，护羌校尉赵冲与汉阳太守张贡击烧何羌于参，破之。
六月乙丑，荧惑犯镇星。
丙寅，立南匈奴守义王兜楼储为南单于。
冬十月辛丑，令郡国中都官系囚殊死以下出缣赎，各有差；其不能入赎者，遣诣临羌县居作二岁。
甲辰，减百官奉。
丙午，禁沽酒，又贷王、侯国租一岁。
translation: 
On the seventh day of the second lunar month, the general, the duke, and the minister were ordered to recommend a person who is virtuous and upright, who can study the subtle mysteries in depth, and seek the hidden principles of things.
In autumn and July, Chenghua stables were set up to store horses.
In August, Julong Wusi, the leader of the left tribe of the Southern Xiongnu, and Zao Tatai Qi and others rebelled.
On the 21st, eight people including Du Qiao, Guanglu's doctor, Zhou Ju, Guanglu's acting doctor, Guo Zun, Feng Xian, Luan Ba, Zhang Gang, Zhou Xu and Liu Ban were sent to inspect the prefectures and counties separately, promulgate customs and education, and evaluate the actual situation by citing the actual situation.
On September 14, Guangling bandit Zhang Ying and others invaded the county.
On the twenty-sixth day of the tenth month in winter, Taiwei Huan Yan and Situ Liu Shou were dismissed from their posts.
On the 29th, General Zhang Qiao left on behalf of his chariots and cavalrymen.
On the seventh day of November, Zhao Jun, the captain of the Sili school, was appointed Taiwei, and Hu Guang, the chief agricultural officer, was appointed Situ.
On the 28th, the general and the three princes were ordered to select one Wu Meng who had performed well on trial and could be appointed as a general.
This year, Zhang Ying, a bandit from Guangling, surrendered before the prefect Zhang Gang.
On the 13th day of the second month in the spring of the second year, Shan Zang and Shan Guo sent envoys to deliver gifts.
On the eighth day of the fourth lunar month in the summer, Zhao Chong, the captain of the Qiang Protector, and Zhang Gong, the prefect of Hanyang, attacked and burned He Qiang Yu Shen and defeated them.
On June 24th, the planet Yinghuo will oppose Saturn.
On the 25th, Douluo Chu, the Shouyi King of the Southern Xiongnu, was appointed as the Southern Danyu.
On the second day of the tenth lunar month in winter, the officers of the county and state were ordered to make amends for those who had been imprisoned and beheaded. The number of tuns varied, and those who could not be put into the tuns were sent to Linqiang County to work as servants for two years.
On the fifth day of the Lunar New Year, the salary of all officials will be reduced.
On the seventh day of the lunar month, the sale and purchase of alcohol is prohibited, and the rent of land by kings and marquises is waived for one year.


Chunk 18: 
original: 
闰王，赵冲击烧当羌于阿阳，破之。
十一月，使匈奴中郎将马寔遣人刺杀句龙吾斯。
十二月，杨、徐盗贼攻烧城寺，杀略吏民。
是岁，凉州地百八十震。
建康元年正月辛丑，诏曰： 陇西、汉阳、张掖、北地、武威、武都，自去年九月已来，地百八十震，山谷坼裂，坏败城寺，杀害民庶。
夷狄叛逆，赋役重数，内外怨旷，惟咎叹息。
其遣光禄大夫案行，宣畅恩泽，惠此下民，勿为烦扰。
三月庚子，沛王广薨。
领护羌校尉卫琚追讨叛羌，破之。
南郡、江夏盗贼寇掠城邑，州郡讨平之。
夏四月，使匈奴中郎将马寔击南匈奴左部，破之，于是胡羌、乌桓悉诣寔降。
辛巳，立皇子炳为皇太子，改年建康，大赦天下。
赐人爵各有差。
秋七月丙午，清河王延平薨。
八月，杨、徐盗贼范容、周生等寇掠城邑，遣御史中丞冯赦督州郡兵讨之。
庚午，帝崩于玉堂前殿，时年三十。
translation: 
In the leap tenth month, Zhao Chong attacked the Shaodang Qiang in Ayang and defeated them.
In November, the Xiongnu Zhonglang General Ma Chen sent people to assassinate Julong Wusi.
In December, Yang and Xu bandits attacked and burned the official residences in the city. Kill and plunder officials and people.
This year, 180 earthquakes occurred in the Liangzhou area.
On the third day of the first spring of the first year of Jiankang, the edict stated: Since September last year, there have been 180 earthquakes in Longxi, Hanyang, Zhangye, Beidi, Wuwei, and Wudu, causing valleys to crack, ruining cities and temples, and injuring people.
The border bandits are rebellious, the land tax and corvee labor are heavy, the husband is disobedient and his daughter is resentful, and there is resentment both internally and externally. Thinking of these evil things, I couldn't help but sigh.
Now I have sent Dr. Guanglu to inspect and declare the favor of the imperial court and the benefits to the people. Do not disturb me.
On the third day of March, King Pei Liu Guang passed away.
Wei Ju, the captain of the Qiang school, pursued and attacked the rebellious Qiang and defeated them.
Bandits from Nanjun and Jiangxia plundered the city, and the prefectures and counties suppressed them.
In the fourth month of summer, the Xiongnu Zhonglang general Ma Chen attacked the left side of the southern Xiongnu and defeated them. Then Hu Qiang and Wu Huan all surrendered in front of Ma Chen.
On the 15th, the prince Liu Bing was made the crown prince, the Yuan Dynasty was changed to Jiankang, and the world was granted amnesty.
They don't wait to give people a title.
On the eleventh day of the seventh month of autumn, Liu Yanping, king of Qinghe, passed away.
In August, Yang and Xu bandits Fan Rong, Zhou Sheng and other bandits plundered the city, and sent the censor Zhongcheng Feng She to supervise the state and county soldiers to carry out the crusade.
On the sixth day of the lunar month, the emperor passed away in the front hall of Yutang at the age of thirty.


Chunk 19: 
original: 
遗诏无起寝庙，敛以故服，珠玉玩好皆不得下。
论曰：古之人君，离幽放而反国祚者有矣，莫不矫鉴前违，审识情伪，无忘在外之忧，故能中兴其业。
观夫顺朝之政，殆不然乎？何其效僻之多与？
孝冲皇帝讳炳，顺帝之子也。
母曰虞贵人。
建康元年立为皇太子，其年八月庚午，即皇帝位，年二岁。
尊皇后曰皇太后。
太后临朝。
丁丑，以太尉赵峻为太傅；大司农李固为太尉，参录尚书事。
九月丙午，葬孝顺皇帝于宪陵，庙曰敬宗。
是日，京师及太原、雁门地震，三郡水涌土裂。
庚戌，诏三公、特进、侯、卿、校尉，举贤良方正、幽逸修道之士各一人，百僚皆上封事。
己未，九江太守丘腾有罪，下狱死。
杨州刺史尹耀、九江太守邓显讨贼范容等于历阳，军败，耀、显为贼所殁。
translation: 
If you leave an edict, don't leave the temple, use existing clothes for burial, and don't even bury jewels and jade with you.
Historians commented: In ancient times, there were kings who were imprisoned and exiled and finally returned to ascend the throne. They all corrected and learned from past experiences and lessons, examined and identified the authenticity of favors, and did not forget the difficulties and dangers when they were outside, so they could revive the great cause.
Emperor Xiaoshun was deposed from the crown prince to the king of Jiyin. After many twists and turns, he succeeded to the emperor's estate. Isn't it similar to those who were imprisoned in the past?
When we examine Emperor Shun's government, why are there not many achievements, but many shortcomings that were imitated in the past and cannot be corrected?
Emperor Xiaochong Liu Bing, son of Emperor Shun. Mother Yu is a noble person.
In the first year of Jiankang, he was established as the crown prince. On the sixth day of August of that year, he ascended the throne at the age of two.
Respect the queen as the empress dowager.
The Queen Mother comes to court to handle state affairs.
On the 13th, Taiwei Zhao Jun was appointed as Taifu; Li Gu, the chief agricultural officer, was appointed as Taiwei and participated in the work of recording ministers.
On September 12, the filial emperor was buried in Xianling, with the temple name Jingzong.
On this day, there was an earthquake in the capital, Taiyuan, and Yanmen, and water surged and soil cracked in the three counties.
On the 16th, the imperial edict was issued to each of the Three Dukes, Tejin, Hou, Qing, and Xiaowei to recommend a virtuous and upright person who lived in seclusion and practiced Taoism. Hundreds of officials wrote secretly to report and suggest various issues.
On the 25th, Qiu Teng, the governor of Jiujiang, was found guilty and sentenced to death in prison.
Yin Yao, the governor of Yangzhou, and Deng Xian, the prefect of Jiujiang, attacked the bandit Fan Rong in Liyang. The army was defeated, and Yin Yao and Deng Xian were killed by the bandits.


Chunk 20: 
original: 
冬十月，日南蛮夷攻烧城邑，交阯刺史夏方招诱降之。
壬申，常山王仪薨。
己卯，零陵太守刘康坐杀无辜，下狱死。
十一月，九江盗贼徐凤、马勉等称 无上将军 ，攻烧城邑。
己酉，令郡国中都官系囚减死一等，徙边；谋反大逆，不用此令。
十二月，九江贼黄虎等攻合肥。
是岁，群盗发宪陵。
护羌校尉赵冲追击叛羌于鹯阴河，战役。
永憙元年春正月戊戌，帝崩于玉堂前殿，年三岁。
清河王蒜征至京师。
孝质皇帝讳缵，肃宗玄孙。
曾祖父千乘贞王伉，祖父乐安夷王宠，父勃海孝王鸿，母陈夫人。
冲帝不豫，大将军梁冀征帝到洛阳都亭。
及冲帝崩，皇太后与冀定策禁中，丙辰，使冀持节，以王青盖车迎帝入南宫。
丁巳，封为建平侯，其日即皇帝位，年八岁。
己未，葬孝冲皇帝于怀陵。
广陵贼张婴等复反，攻杀堂邑、江都长。
九江贼徐凤等攻杀曲阳、东城长。
甲申，谒高庙。
乙酉，谒光武庙。
二月，豫章太守虞续坐赃，下狱死。
乙酉，大赦天下。
translation: 
In the tenth month of winter, the barbarians from Rinan attacked, burned and plundered the city, and Xia Fang, the governor of Jiaozhi, recruited him and lured him to surrender.
On the ninth day of the lunar month, Liu Yi, the king of Changshan, passed away.
On the 16th, Liu Kang, the prefect of Lingling, was imprisoned for killing an innocent person.
In November, the Jiujiang thieves Xu Feng, Ma Mian and others were called "Supreme Generals" and attacked, burned and plundered the city.
On the 16th, he ordered all the officials in the county and state to be imprisoned with a reduced penalty of one degree of death and move to remote areas; for treason and treason, this order was not required.
In December, Huang Hu, a bandit from Jiujiang, attacked Hefei.
This year, a group of thieves excavated Xianling Tomb.
Zhao Chong, the captain who protected the Qiang, pursued the rebel Qiang in the Niaoyin River, and Zhao Chong died in the battle.
On the sixth day of the first spring of the first year of Yongxi, Emperor Chong died in the front hall of Yutang at the age of three.
Liu Suan, the king of Qinghe, was summoned to the capital.
The filial emperor Liu Zan was the great-great-grandson of Emperor Suzong.
His great-grandfather is King Qianchengzhen Liu and his wife, his grandfather is Liu Chong, King of Le'anyi, his father is Liu Hong, King of Bohai Xiao, and his mother is Mrs. Chen.
Emperor Chong was ill, so General Liang Ji sent Liu Zuan to Duting in Luoyang.
When Emperor Chong passed away, the Empress Dowager and Liang Ji decided to make arrangements in the palace. On the 18th, Liang Ji was sent to hold Fu Jie and welcome the emperor into the Nangong with a Wang Qingqing chariot.
On the 19th, he was granted the title of Marquis of Jianping. On this day, he became emperor at the age of eight.
On the 21st, Emperor Xiaochong was buried in Huailing.
Guangling bandit Zhang Ying and others rebelled again, attacking and killing the county magistrates of Tangyi and Jiangdu.
Jiujiang bandit Xu Feng attacked and killed Quyang and Dongcheng County Magistrates.
Jiashen, visit Gaomiao.
Yiyou, visit Guangwu Temple.
In February, Yu Xu, the prefect of Yuzhang, was imprisoned for taking bribes.
On the 18th, there was a general amnesty.


Chunk 21: 
original: 
赐人爵及粟、帛各有差。
还王侯所削户、邑。
彭城王道薨。
叛羌诣左冯翊梁并降。
三月，九江贼马勉称 黄帝 。
九江都尉滕抚讨马勉、范容、周生，大破斩之。
夏四月壬申，雩。
庚辰，济北王安薨。
丹阳贼陆宫等围城，烧亭寺，丹阳太守江汉击破之。
五月甲午，诏曰： 朕以不德，托母天下，布政不明，每失厥中。
自春涉夏，大旱炎赫，忧心京京，故得祷祈明祀，冀蒙润泽。
前虽得雨，而宿麦颇伤；比日阴云，还复开霁。
寤寐永叹，重怀惨结。
将二千石、令、长不崇宽和。暴刻之为乎？
其令中都官系囚罪非殊死考未竟者，一切任出，以须立秋。
郡国有名山大泽能兴云雨者，二千石长吏各洁齐请祷，谒诚尽礼。
又兵役连年，死亡流离，或支骸不敛，或停棺莫收，朕甚愍焉。
昔文王葬枯骨，人赖其德。
今遣使者案行，若无家属及贫无资者，随宜赐恤，以慰孤魂。
translation: 
The rewards of civilian titles and grain and silk were varied.
Restore the household registrations and towns reduced by the princes.
Liu Dao, King of Pengcheng, passed away.
They rebelled against the Qiang and surrendered to Zuofeng Yiliang.
In March, Ma Mian, a bandit from Jiujiang, called himself the Yellow Emperor.
Teng Fu, the captain of Jiujiang, attacked Ma Mian, Fan and Zhou Sheng, defeated them and killed them.
On the 11th day of the fourth lunar month in the summer, people offer sacrifices to pray for rain.
On the 19th, King Liu An of Jibei passed away.
The Danyang thieves Lu Gong and others besieged the city and burned the inn buildings. Jiang Han, the prefect of Danyang, defeated them.
On the fourth day of the fifth lunar month, the edict said: With a weak virtue, I rely on the Queen Mother to govern the world. The government affairs I give are not clear, and I often lose balance.
From spring to summer, there was a severe drought and scorching heat, which made people worried, so they held sacrifices to the sky in the hope of receiving sweet rain.
Although there was some rain a while ago, the wheat was already injured; this time there were clouds, but the sky opened again.
I sighed while sleeping and waking up. Frustrated.
Could it be that Erqianshi, the county magistrate, and the county magistrate did not pay attention to forgiveness and benevolence, but were cruel and harsh?
The Zhongdu officials are now ordered to release all prisoners on bail, except those who cannot be beheaded and have not yet completed questioning, and will be sentenced after the beginning of autumn.
There are famous mountains and swamps in the county that can stir up clouds and cause rain. The two thousand stone chief officials clean themselves and fast to perform sacrifices and pray, and they must be sincere and respectful.
I have great sympathy for those who have been displaced for years due to military service and have died in a strewn pile, with their bodies either left unburied or their coffins left uncollected.
In the past, the story of King Wen burying dead bones was always praised by people.
Now we send people to inspect and patrol all areas, and if we find that the deceased has no family members or is too poor to pay for his burial, we will provide pensions anytime and anywhere to comfort the lonely souls.


Chunk 22: 
original: 
是月，下邳人谢安应募击徐凤等，斩之。
六月，鲜卑寇代郡。
秋七月庚寅，阜陵王代薨。
庐江盗贼攻寻阳，又攻盱台，滕抚遣司马王章击破之。
九月庚戌，太傅赵峻薨。
冬十一月己丑，南阳太守韩昭坐赃下狱死。
丙午，中郎将滕抚击广陵贼张婴，破之。
丁未，中郎将赵序坐事弃市。
历阳贼华孟自称 黑帝 ，攻杀九江太守杨岑，滕抚率诸将击孟等，大破斩之。
本初元年春正月丙申，诏曰： 昔尧命四子，以钦天道，《鸿范》九畴，休咎有象。
夫瑞以和降，异因逆感，禁微应大，前圣所重。
顷者，州郡轻慢宪防，竞逞残暴，造设科条，陷入无罪。
或以喜怒驱逐长吏，恩阿所私，罚枉仇隙，至令守阙诉讼，前后不绝。
送故迎新，人离其害，怨气伤和，以致灾眚。
《书》云： 明德慎罚。
translation: 
This month, Xie An, a native of Xiapi, responded to the recruitment and attacked Xu Feng and others, killing Xu Feng.
In June, Xianbei bandits harassed Dai County.
On the first day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, Fuling King Liu Dai passed away.
The Lujiang bandits attacked Xunyang and Xutai. Teng Fu sent Sima Wangzhang to defeat them.
On September 22, Taifu Zhao Jun passed away.
On the second day of the eleventh month in winter, Han Zhao, the governor of Nanyang, was imprisoned for corruption and bribery.
On the 19th, Zhonglang sent Teng Fu to attack Guangling thief Zhang Ying and defeated him.
On the 20th, Zhonglang's general Zhao Xu was beheaded in the busy market for taking money.
Hua Meng, a thief in Liyang, claimed to be the "Black Emperor" and attacked and killed Yang Cen, the prefect of Jiujiang. Teng Fu led his generals to attack Hua Meng, defeated him and killed him.
On the tenth day of the first lunar month of spring in the first year of Benchu, the edict said: In ancient times, Yao ordered his four sons to respect the emperor and the heaven. Heaven gave the Dafa "Hongfan" to Xia Yu, who divided it into nine categories, including different symbols of good and evil, good and evil.
Auspiciousness comes because of purity and harmony, and misfortune comes because of going against the grain and being out of season. Although the prohibition is small, the fulfillment is huge.
Just like what Emperor Yao and Jizi paid attention to. Recently, states and counties have neglected the enforcement of laws and the prevention of illegal activities, but they have indulged in cruelty and cruelty to each other, creating and setting up some regulations to frame innocent people.
Or they act emotionally, follow their own moods, repel senior officials, flatter themselves for personal gain, impose unfair punishments, and take advantage of opportunities to vent their hatred, resulting in endless lawsuits in government offices.
Send away the old people and welcome the new people who have just arrived. People suffer disasters, and resentment hurts harmony, thus causing disasters and violence.
"Shangshu" says that one must have perfect virtue and punish with caution.


Chunk 23: 
original: 
方春东作，育微敬始。
其敕有司，罪非殊死，且勿案验，以崇在宽。
壬子，广陵太守王喜坐讨贼逗留，下狱死。
二月庚辰，诏曰： 九江、广陵二郡数离寇害，残夷最甚。
生者失其资业。死者委尸原野。
昔之为政，一物不得其所，若己为之，况我元元，婴此困毒。
方春戒节，赈济乏厄，掩骼埋胔之时。
其调比郡见谷，出禀穷弱，收葬枯骸，务加埋恤，以称朕意。
夏四月庚辰，令郡国举明经，年五十以上、七十以上诣太学。
自大将军至六百石，皆遣子受业，岁满课试，以高第五人补郎中，次五人太子舍人。
translation: 
Now is the time for spring plowing and production. All things are developing in a small way, so we should cherish the budding state.
We now order those in charge that if the criminal is not to be beheaded, he will not be interrogated for the time being as a sign of forgiveness.
On the 26th, Wang Xi, the prefect of Guangling, was imprisoned because he did not actively fight against the thieves and refused to move forward.
On February 24, the edict stated: Jiujiang and Guangling counties have suffered many attacks from Zhang Ying and Hua Meng, and the devastation and injuries were the most severe.
Those who live are ruined, and those who die are buried in the wilderness.
Politicians in ancient times regarded it as their own fault if something did not get the proper status it deserved.
What's more, the vast number of people in Li are being troubled and poisoned in this way. Now is the lunar month of spring, a time to prepare for spring plowing, to provide relief to the poor and suffering, and to bury the dead bones and carrion that have been left in the wild.
The existing valleys in nearby counties should be allocated to provide relief to the poor, old and young, collect the bones and remains, and provide them with compensation, in order to satisfy my wishes.
On the twenty-fifth day of the fourth lunar month in the summer, the prefectures and states were ordered to recommend Confucian scholars who were proficient in Confucian classics and were over fifty but under seventy to be sent to Taixue.
From the rank of general to the rank of six hundred stones, all the children are sent to school and get a job. When they are old enough, they will take an examination. The top five with the best test scores will be appointed as doctors, and the sixth to tenth will be appointed as princes.


Chunk 24: 
original: 
又千石、六百石、四府掾属、三署郎、四姓小侯先能通经者，各令随家法，其高第者上名牒，当以次赏进。
五月庚寅，徙乐安王为勃海王。
海水溢。
戊申，使谒者案行，收葬乐安、北海人为水所漂没死者，又禀给贫羸。
庚戌，太白犯荧惑。
六月丁巳，大赦天下，赐民爵及粟、帛各有差。
闰月甲申，大将军梁冀潜行鸩弑，帝崩于玉堂前殿，年九岁。
丁亥，太尉李固免。
戊子，司徒胡广为太尉，司空赵戒为司徒，与梁冀参录尚书事。
太仆袁汤为司空。
赞曰：孝顺初立，时髦允集。匪砥匪革，终沧嬖习。
保阿传土，后家世及。
冲夭未识，质弑以聪。
陵折在运，天绪三终。
translation: 
Thousands of stones, six hundred stones, subordinates of the four mansions of General, Taiwei, Situ and Sikong, three ministers from Wuguansu, Zuosu and Youshu, and Xiaohou with four surnames: Fan, Guo, Yin and Ma. Those who can understand the classics first are called poets for poetry, and they are called Lijia for etiquette. They all follow the family rules. Those with the highest rankings will report their names, and they will be rewarded and used in turn.
On the sixth day of May, King Le'an was transferred to King Bohai.
The sea water overflowed and caused disaster.
On the 24th, visitors were sent to inspect and bury the dead who had been drowned by seawater in Le'an and Beihai. They also used the valley to provide relief to the poor, old, young and infirm.
On the 26th, Taibai star clashed with Yinghuo star.
On the third day of the sixth lunar month, a general amnesty was granted to the whole country, and the people were given various titles, grain, and silk.
On the first day of the sixth lunar month, the general Liang Ji secretly poisoned Emperor Zhi to kill him. The emperor died in the front hall of Yutang at the age of nine.
On the fourth day of the Lunar New Year, Taiwei Li Gu was dismissed from his post.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, Situ Hu Guang was appointed Taiwei, Sikong Zhao Jie was appointed Situ, and Liang Ji participated in the post of general secretary.
He appointed his servant Yuan Tang as Sikong.
The historian praised: When Emperor Shun first became emperor, he had many outstanding people around him, but he was unable to forge ahead and carry out reforms. In the end, he indulged in personal favors and practices, relied on peace, and was greedy for goods and bribes to increase the number of people.
He trusted two generations of relatives, so the government was in a state of decline.
Chong Di Yaoshang is not sensible at all.
Emperor Zhi was smart and precocious, but he was killed by Liang Ji.


