Chunk 0: 
original: 
郦生食其者，陈留高阳人也。
好读书，家贫落魄，无以为衣食业，为里监门吏。
然县中贤豪不敢役，县中皆谓之狂生。
及陈胜、项梁等起，诸将徇地过高阳者数十人，郦生闻其将皆握齱好苛礼自用，不能听大度之言，郦生乃深自藏匿。
後闻沛公将兵略地陈留郊，沛公麾下骑士適郦生里中子也，沛公时时问邑中贤士豪俊。
骑士归，郦生见谓之曰： 吾闻沛公慢而易人，多大略，此真吾所原从游，莫为我先。
若见沛公，谓曰 臣里中有郦生，年六十馀，长八尺，人皆谓之狂生，生自谓我非狂生 。
骑士曰： 沛公不好儒，诸客冠儒冠来者，沛公辄解其冠，溲溺其中。
与人言，常大骂。
translation: 
Li Shiqi was from Gaoyang, Chenliu.
He likes to study very much, but his family is poor and destitute. He doesn't even have a property that can afford to clothe and feed himself, so he has to work as a lowly clerk looking after the inner door.
But despite this, the wise men and powerful men in the county did not dare to use him casually. People in the county called him "Kangsheng".
When Chen Sheng, Xiang Liang and others rebelled against the Qin Dynasty, dozens of generals passed through Gaoyang when they attacked the city. However, Li Shiqi heard that these people were narrow-minded, liked trivial etiquette, were self-willed, and could not listen to open-minded words. So he lived in seclusion and hid himself, not to cater to these people.
Later, he heard that Pei Gong led troops to capture the city and came to the outskirts of Chenliu. One of Pei Gong's cavalrymen happened to be the son of an old friend of Li Shi's neighborhood. Pei Gong often asked him about the wise men and heroes in his hometown.
One day, when the cavalry came home, Li Shiqi saw him and said to him: I heard that Pei Gong was arrogant and looked down upon others, but he had many far-reaching strategies. This is the person I really want to follow, but I have no one to introduce him to him.
When you see Pei Gong, you can say this to him: There is a Mr. Li in my hometown who is over sixty years old and eight feet tall. People call him a crazy person, but he himself says that he is not a crazy person.
The cavalryman replied: Pei Gong does not like Confucian scholars. Many people came to see him wearing Confucian scholar hats. He immediately took off their hats and urinated in them.
When he talked to people, he often cursed.


Chunk 1: 
original: 
未可以儒生说也。
郦生曰： 弟言之。
骑士从容言如郦生所诫者。
沛公至高阳传舍，使人召郦生。
郦生至，入谒，沛公方倨床使两女子洗足，而见郦生。
郦生入，则长揖不拜，曰： 足下欲助秦攻诸侯乎？且欲率诸侯破秦也？
沛公骂曰： 竖儒！
夫天下同苦秦久矣，故诸侯相率而攻秦，何谓助秦攻诸侯乎？
郦生曰： 必聚徒合义兵诛无道秦，不宜倨见长者。
於是沛公辍洗，起摄衣，延郦生上坐，谢之。
郦生因言六国从横时。沛公喜，赐郦生食，问曰： 计将安出？
郦生曰： 足下起纠合之众，收散乱之兵，不满万人，欲以径入强秦，此所谓探虎口者也。
夫陈留，天下之旻，四通五达之郊也，今其城又多积粟。
臣善其令，请得使之，令下足下。
即不听，足下举兵攻之，臣为内应。
於是遣郦生行，沛公引兵随之，遂下陈留。号郦食其为广野君。
郦生言其弟郦商，使将数千人从沛公西南略地。
郦生常为说客，驰使诸侯。
translation: 
So you'd better not lobby him as a Confucian scholar.
Li Shiqi said: Just say it like I taught you.
After the knight returned, he told Pei Gong according to Li Sheng's instructions.
Later, Pei Gong came to Gaoyang, stayed in an inn, and sent someone to summon Li Shiqi to come and see him.
When Li Sheng came to the hotel, Pei Gong sat on the bed with his legs spread apart and asked two women to wash his feet. He called Li Sheng to see him.
Li Sheng went in, only made a long salute without leaning down to worship, and said: "Do you want to help Qin attack the princes, or do you want to lead the princes to destroy Qin?"
Pei Gong scolded: You Confucian scholar!
The people of the world have been suffering from the Qin Dynasty for a long time, so the princes have raised armies to resist the violent Qin one after another. How can you help the Qin Dynasty attack the princes?
Li Sheng said: If you are determined to gather the people and call for volunteers to overthrow the tyrannical and cruel Qin Dynasty, you should not receive the elders in such a arrogant and disrespectful manner.
So Pei Gong immediately stopped washing his feet, tidied his clothes, invited Li Sheng to the guest's seat, and apologized to him.
Li Sheng talked about the strategy used by the six kingdoms to unite vertically and horizontally. Pei Gong was very happy and ordered people to bring rice for Li Sheng to eat. Then he asked: "Then how do you think we should formulate our strategy today?"
Li Sheng said: If you gather the rabble and scattered soldiers, the total is less than 10,000 people. If you use this to directly confront the powerful Qin, it will be what people often say is exploring the tiger's mouth.
Chenliu is an important transportation thoroughfare in the world, extending in all directions. Now there is a lot of grain in the city.
I am very close to the magistrate of Chenliu. Please send me to him to ask him to surrender to you.
If he doesn't obey, you can send troops to attack the city again, and I can act as an internal response in the city.
So Pei Gong sent Li Sheng there and followed closely with his own troops. In this way, he captured Chenliu and gave Li Sheng the title of Lord of Guangye.
Li Sheng recommended his younger brother Li Shang to lead thousands of people to follow Pei Gong to the southwest to capture the city.
Li Sheng himself often served as a lobbyist and traveled among the princes as an envoy.


Chunk 2: 
original: 
汉三年秋，项羽击汉，拔荥阳，汉兵遁保巩、洛。
楚人闻淮阴侯破赵，彭越数反梁地，则分兵救之。
淮阴方东击齐，汉王数困荥阳、成皋，计欲捐成皋以东，屯巩、洛以拒楚。
郦生因曰： 臣闻知天之天者，王事可成；不知天之天者，王事不可成。
王者以民人为天，而民人以食为天。
夫敖仓，天下转输久矣，臣闻其下乃有藏粟甚多，楚人拔荥阳，不坚守敖仓，乃引而东，令適卒分守成皋，此乃天所以资汉也。
方今楚易取而汉反郤，自夺其便，臣窃以为过矣。
且两雄不俱立，楚汉久相持不决，百姓骚动，海内摇荡，农夫释耒，工女下机，天下之心未有所定也。
translation: 
In the autumn of the third year of the Han Dynasty, Xiang Yu attacked the Han Dynasty and captured Xingyang City. The Han soldiers fled to defend Gong and Luo.
Soon after, the people of Chu heard that Han Xin, the Marquis of Huaiyin, had conquered Zhao and that Peng Yue had rebelled many times in Liang, so they sent a group of troops to rescue him.
Han Xin, the Marquis of Huaiyin, was attacking Qi to the east. The King of Han was besieged by Xiang Yu many times in Xingyang and Chenggao, so he wanted to give up the territory east of Chenggao and stationed troops in Gong and Luoyi to confront the Chu army.
Li Sheng then commented on this: I heard that those who know why heaven is heaven can achieve the great cause of unification; but those who do not know the reason why heaven is heaven cannot achieve the great cause of unification.
As the king who achieved the great cause of unification, he regarded the common people as his heaven, and the common people regarded food as their heaven.
Aocang has been a place where food has been transported from all over the world for a long time.
I heard that there is a lot of food stored here now. The people of Chu conquered Xingyang, but did not hold on to Aocang. Instead, they led their troops eastward and only sent some criminals to guard Chenggao. This was because God wanted to provide these grains to the Han army.
At present, the Chu army is easily defeated, but we have to retreat and throw away the benefits we want to gain. Privately, I think this is wrong. What's more, two powerful opponents cannot stand side by side at the same time. The war between Chu and Han continued for a long time. The people were restless and the country was in chaos and turmoil. Farmers put down their farm tools and stopped plowing. Weaver girls got off their looms and stopped weaving. They lingered and watched. The people of the world have not yet decided which side their hearts are on.


Chunk 3: 
original: 
原足下急复进兵，收取荥阳，据敖仓之粟，塞成皋之险，杜大行之道，距蜚狐之口，守白马之津，以示诸侯效实形制之势，则天下知所归矣。
方今燕、赵已定，唯齐未下。今田广据千里之齐，田间将二十万之众，军於历城，诸田宗彊，负海阻河济，南近楚，人多变诈，足下虽遣数十万师，未可以岁月破也。
臣请得奉明诏说齐王，使为汉而称东籓。
上曰： 善。
乃从其画，复守敖仓，而使郦生说齐王曰： 王知天下之所归乎？
王曰： 不知也。
曰： 王知天下之所归，则齐国可得而有也；若不知天下之所归，即齐国未可得保也。
齐王曰： 天下何所归？
曰： 归汉。
曰： 先生何以言之？
曰： 汉王与项王戮力西面击秦，约先入咸阳者王之。
汉王先入咸阳，项王负约不与而王之汉中。
项王迁杀义帝，汉王闻之，起蜀汉之兵击三秦，出关而责义帝之处，收天下之兵，立诸侯之後。
translation: 
Therefore, please hurry up and march again, recapture Xingyang, occupy the grain of Aocang, block the dangerous fortress of Chenggao, block the main transportation road of Taihang, control Feihu Pass, guard Baima Jindu, and let the princes see the actual situation today, then the people of the world will know which side to submit to.
Now Yan and Zhao have been pacified, only Qi has not yet been conquered, and Tian Guang occupies the thousands-mile-long Qi. Tian Jian leads an army of 200,000 troops stationed in Licheng. Each Tian clan is powerful. They are backed by the sea, blocked by the Yellow River and Jishui, and are close to Chu in the south. The people of Qi are so many and unpredictable that even if you send hundreds of thousands of troops, it is impossible to defeat it in a year or a few months.
I request to follow your edict to persuade the King of Qi to return him to the Han Dynasty and become a vassal state in the east.
The king of Han replied: "Okay, so be it!"
The King of Han followed Li Sheng's plan and sent troops to defend Aocang again. At the same time, he sent Li Sheng to Qi. Li Sheng said to King Qi: Does your Majesty know where the hearts of the world are headed?
King Qi replied: I don't know.
Li Sheng said: If you know the direction of the people's hearts in the world, then the state of Qi can be preserved. If you don't know the direction of the people of the world, then the state of Qi cannot be preserved.
King Qi asked: To whom do the hearts of the world turn?
Li Sheng said: Return to the King of Han.
King Qi asked again: Why do you say this, sir?
Li Sheng replied: King Han and King Xiang jointly marched westward to attack the Qin Dynasty. They had clearly agreed in front of Emperor Yi that the one who conquered Xianyang first would be crowned king there.
The King of Han first invaded Xianyang, but King Xiang broke the covenant and refused to allow him to become king in Guanzhong, instead allowing him to go to Hanzhong to become king.
King Xiang moved Emperor Yi and sent people to assassinate him. After the King of Han heard the news, he immediately mobilized the Shu Han army to attack the Three Qin Dynasties. He went out of Hangu Pass to inquire where Emperor Yi had moved, gathered the troops from all over the world, and supported the descendants of the former six kingdoms.


Chunk 4: 
original: 
降城即以侯其将，得赂即以分其士，与天下同其利，豪英贤才皆乐为之用。
诸侯之兵四面而至，蜀汉之粟方船而下。
项王有倍约之名，杀义帝之负；於人之功无所记，於人之罪无所忘；战胜而不得其赏，拔城而不得其封；非项氏莫得用事；为人刻印，刓而不能授；攻城得赂，积而不能赏：天下畔之，贤才怨之，而莫为之用。
故天下之士归於汉王，可坐而策也。
夫汉王发蜀汉，定三秦；涉西河之外，援上党之兵；下井陉，诛成安君；破北魏，举三十二城：此蚩尤之兵也，非人之力也，天之福也。
今已据敖仓之粟，塞成皋之险，守白马之津，杜大行之阪，距蜚狐之口，天下後服者先亡矣。
王疾先下汉王，齐国社稷可得而保也；不下汉王，危亡可立而待也。
translation: 
When a city is captured, he will immediately grant marquisships to the meritorious generals, and immediately distribute the treasures to the soldiers, sharing the benefits with the world, so those heroes and talented people are willing to serve him.
The armies of the princes came from all directions, and the grain ships of the Shu Han were continuously sent down the river next to the ships.
King Xiang not only had a bad reputation for betraying the covenant, but also had the unjust act of killing the Righteous Emperor; he never remembered the merits of others, but never forgot the sins of others; the soldiers won no rewards for winning battles, and they did not receive titles for capturing cities; it was not their Xiang family. No one in the world is given important treatment; he carves the seal of marquis for those who have meritorious service, and plays with it repeatedly in his hands, unwilling to grant it; he would rather pile up the wealth obtained by attacking the city than give it to everyone; therefore, the people of the world betray him, the outstanding people resent him, and no one is willing to serve him.
Therefore, all the scholars in the world have surrendered to the King of Han, and the King of Han can command them from his seat.
The King of Han led the army of Shu Han to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties, occupied a large area of ​​land outside the Xihe River, led the elite troops of the Shangdang who surrendered, captured Jingxing, and killed Lord Cheng'an; he defeated Wei Bao of Hebei and occupied thirty-two cities: just like the invincible Chi You's army, it did not rely on human strength, but was the result of God's blessing.
Now the king of Han has seized the grain of Aocang, blocked the dangerous fortress of Chenggao, guarded the White Horse Ferry, blocked the main road of Daxing, and guarded the Fehu Pass. If the princes of the world want to surrender in the end, they will be destroyed first.
If you surrender to the King of Han quickly, the state of Qi can still be preserved; if you do not surrender to the King of Han, the moment of peril will come soon.


Chunk 5: 
original: 
田广以为然，乃听郦生，罢历下兵守战备，与郦生日纵酒。
淮阴侯闻郦生伏轼下齐七十馀城，乃夜度兵平原袭齐。
齐王田广闻汉兵至，以为郦生卖己，乃曰： 汝能止汉军，我活汝；不然，我将亨汝！
郦生曰： 举大事不细谨，盛德不辞让。
而公不为若更言！
齐王遂亨郦生，引兵东走。
汉十二年，曲周侯郦商以丞相将兵击黥布有功。
高祖举列侯功臣，思郦食其。
郦食其子疥数将兵，功未当侯，上以其父故，封疥为高梁侯。
後更食武遂，嗣三世。
元狩元年中，武遂侯平坐诈诏衡山王取百斤金，当弃市，病死，国除也。
translation: 
Tian Guang believed that Li Sheng's words were right, so he obeyed Li Sheng, removed all military defense and war preparations, and drank and had fun with Li Sheng every day.
Han Xin, the Marquis of Huaiyin, heard that Li Sheng had made a trip in the car without any effort, and had captured more than 70 cities in Qi State with his sharp tongue. He was very unconvinced, so he took advantage of the cover of night to lead his troops across the plains to secretly attack Qi State.
King Tian Guang of Qi heard that the Han soldiers had arrived and thought that Li Sheng had betrayed him, so he said to Li Sheng: If you can stop the Han army from attacking, I will let you live. If not, I will cook you to death!
Li Sheng said: People who do great things do not stick to trivial matters, and people with great virtues are not afraid of others' criticism.
Your father will not lobby Han Xin on your behalf!
In this way, the King of Qi killed Li Sheng and led his troops to escape eastward.
In the twelfth year of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, Li Shang, the Marquis of Quzhou, led troops to attack Yingbu in his capacity as prime minister.
When Emperor Gaozu was enfeoffing feudal princes and attacking his ministers, he missed Li Shiqi very much.
Li Shiqi's son Li Shi led troops to fight many times, but his military exploits did not reach the level of a marquis. The emperor made Li Shi a Marquis of Gaoliang because of his father.
Later, the place of residence was changed to Wusui, and the title was passed down to three generations.
In the first year of Yuanshou, Li Ping, Marquis of Wu Sui, defrauded King Hengshan of one hundred kilograms of gold by falsely claiming the emperor's order. The crime he committed should have been executed on the street, but at this time, he died of illness and the fiefdom was revoked.


Chunk 6: 
original: 
陆贾者，楚人也。以客从高祖定天下，名为有口辩士，居左右，常使诸侯。
及高祖时，中国初定，尉他平南越，因王之。
高祖使陆贾赐尉他印为南越王。
陆生至，尉他魋结箕倨见陆生。
陆生因进说他曰： 足下中国人，亲戚昆弟坟在真定。
今足下反天性，弃冠带，欲以区区之越与天子抗衡为敌国，祸且及身矣。
且夫秦失其政，诸侯豪桀并起，唯汉王先入关，据咸阳。
项羽倍约，自立为西楚霸王，诸侯皆属，可谓至彊。
然汉王起巴蜀，鞭笞天下，劫略诸侯，遂诛项羽灭之。
五年之间，海内平定，此非人力，天之所建也。
天子闻君王王南越，不助天下诛暴逆，将相欲移兵而诛王，天子怜百姓新劳苦，故且休之，遣臣授君王印，剖符通使。
君王宜郊迎，北面称臣，乃欲以新造未集之越，屈彊於此。
汉诚闻之，掘烧王先人冢，夷灭宗族，使一偏将将十万众临越，则越杀王降汉，如反覆手耳。
translation: 
Lu Jia was a native of the Chu State. He followed Emperor Gaozu to pacify the world as a guest of staff. People at that time called him a very eloquent lobbyist, so he accompanied Emperor Gaozu and often traveled to various vassal states as envoys.
When Emperor Gaozu had just pacified the Central Plains, Wei Ta also pacified South Vietnam and established himself as king there.
Emperor Gaozu considered that the world had been settled for the first time, so he did not execute Wei Ta. He also sent Lu Jia with the seal of the King of South Vietnam given to Wei Ta to appoint him.
When Lu Sheng arrived in South Vietnam, he wore his hair in an awl-like bun popular in the area, sat with his legs spread like a dustpan, and met Lu Sheng.
Lu Sheng said to Wei Ta: You are from the Central Plains, and the graves of your relatives, brothers and ancestors are all in Zhending.
But now that you have gone against the customs of the Central Plains people, abandoned your clothes and scarves, and want to use Xiaonan, who has only a small place, to compete with the emperor and become an enemy country, then your disaster will be imminent.
Moreover, the Qin Dynasty was tyrannical and ruthless, and all the princes and heroes rose up one after another. Only the King of Han entered the pass first and occupied Xianyang.
Xiang Yu betrayed the alliance and established himself as the overlord of Western Chu. The princes all belonged to him, and he could be said to be extremely powerful.
But after the King of Han sent troops from Bashu, he conquered the world, pacified the princes, killed Xiang Yu, and destroyed Chu.
Within five years, the world was at peace. This is not something that humans can do, but is the result of God’s help.
Now the Emperor of the Han Dynasty has heard that you are proclaimed king in South Vietnam and is unwilling to help the people of the world to quell the rebellion. The generals and ministers of the Han Dynasty want to lead their troops to destroy you. But the emperor cherishes the people and thinks that they have just experienced the hardships and chaos of the war, so he temporarily stopped the army and sent me to grant you the gold seal of the King of Nanyue, cut the talisman into a letter, and exchange envoys.
You should go to the outskirts to welcome us, face the north, and prostrate yourself as my vassal, but you want to be arrogant and unruly as a small South Vietnam that has just been established and has not yet gathered the people.
If the imperial court finds out about this, digs and burns the tombs of your ancestors, exterminates your clan, and then sends a general to lead a hundred thousand troops to Vietnam, then the South Vietnamese will kill you and surrender to the Han Dynasty, as easy as turning the back of their hand.


Chunk 7: 
original: 
於是尉他乃蹶然起坐，谢陆生曰： 居蛮夷中久，殊失礼义。
因问陆生曰： 我孰与萧何、曹参、韩信贤？
陆生曰： 王似贤。
复曰： 我孰与皇帝贤？
陆生曰： 皇帝起丰沛，讨暴秦，诛彊楚，为天下兴利除害，继五帝三王之业，统理中国。
中国之人以亿计，地方万里，居天下之膏腴，人众车轝，万物殷富，政由一家，自天地剖泮未始有也。
今王众不过数十万，皆蛮夷，崎岖山海间，譬若汉一郡，王何乃比於汉！
尉他大笑曰： 吾不起中国，故王此。
使我居中国，何渠不若汉？
乃大说陆生，留与饮数月。
曰： 越中无足与语，至生来，令我日闻所不闻。
赐陆生橐中装直千金，他送亦千金。
translation: 
After Wei Ta heard this, he immediately stood up and apologized to Lu Sheng: "I have lived among the barbarians for a long time, so it is too rude."
Then, he asked Lu Sheng: Who is more virtuous and talented among me and Xiao He, Cao Shen, and Han Xin?
Lu Sheng said: You seem to be a little stronger than them.
He asked again: "How do I compare with the emperor?"
Li Sheng replied: The emperor raised his troops from Fengpeng, crusaded against the tyrannical Qin Dynasty, wiped out the powerful Chu State, brought benefit and eliminated harm to the people of the whole world, inherited the magnificent achievements of the Five Emperors and Three Emperors, and governed the entire Central Plains.
The Central Plains has a population of hundreds of millions, a land area of ​​thousands of miles, and is located in the most fertile area in the world. It has many people and vehicles, rich products, and government orders come from one family. This grand situation has never happened since the beginning of the world.
But now you only have a few hundred thousand people, and they are all uncivilized barbarians. They live in this cramped place between mountains and seas. They are just like a county in the Han Dynasty. How can you compare with the Han Dynasty!
After Wei Ta heard this, he laughed and said: I can't make a fortune in the Central Plains, so I become the king here.
Even if I occupy the Central Plains, how can I be inferior to the King of Han?
Through conversation, he found out that he liked Lu Sheng very much and left him to drink and have fun with him for several months.
Wei Ta said: No one in South Vietnam can talk to me. It was only after you came here that I heard things every day that I had never heard before.
Wei Ta also gave Lu Sheng a package in a bag, worth thousands of gold, and also gave him many other gifts, also worth thousands of gold.


Chunk 8: 
original: 
陆生卒拜尉他为南越王，令称臣奉汉约。
归报，高祖大悦，拜贾为太中大夫。
陆生时时前说称诗书。高帝骂之曰： 乃公居马上而得之，安事诗书！
陆生曰； 居马上得之，宁可以马上治之乎？
且汤武逆取而以顺守之，文武并用，长久之术也。
昔者吴王夫差、智伯极武而亡；秦任刑法不变，卒灭赵氏。
乡使秦已并天下，行仁义，法先圣，陛下安得而有之？
高帝不怿而有惭色，乃谓陆生曰： 试为我著秦所以失天下，吾所以得之者何，及古成败之国。
陆生乃粗述存亡之徵，凡著十二篇。
每奏一篇，高帝未尝不称善，左右呼万岁，号其书曰 新语 。
孝惠帝时，吕太后用事，欲王诸吕，畏大臣有口者，陆生自度不能争之，乃病免家居。
以好畤田地善，可以家焉。有五男，乃出所使越得橐中装卖千金，分其子，子二百金，令为生产。
陆生常安车驷马，从歌舞鼓琴瑟侍者十人，宝剑直百金，谓其子曰： 与汝约：过汝，汝给吾人马酒食，极欲，十日而更。
所死家，得宝剑车骑侍从者。
translation: 
Lu Sheng finally completed the mission of worshiping him as the king of South Vietnam, making him surrender to the Han Dynasty and obey the control and restraint of the Han Dynasty.
After Lu Jia returned to the court, he reported the above situation to Emperor Gaozu. Emperor Gaozu was very happy and appointed Lu Jia as Taizhong doctor.
Lu Sheng often talked about Confucian classics such as "The Book of Songs" and "The Book of Documents" in front of the emperor. Hearing this, Emperor Gao was very unhappy and cursed at him: Your father's world was built by riding a horse and conquering the north and south, so there is no need for "Poems" and "Books"!
Lu Sheng replied: You can conquer the world on a horse, how can you rule the world on a horse?
Both Shang Tang and Zhou Wu conquered the world with force, and then followed the situation to maintain it with civil rule. Using both civil rule and martial arts was the best way to ensure long-term peace and stability in the country.
In the past, the kings of Wu, Fu Chai and Zhi Bo, both tried their best to show off their martial arts, which led to the destruction of their country; the Qin Dynasty also blindly used harsh torture methods without changing them, which eventually led to its own destruction.
If the Qin Dynasty unified the world and practiced benevolence and righteousness and imitated the ancestors, how could your Majesty conquer the world?
After listening to this, Emperor Gao felt unhappy, with a look of shame on his face, and said to Lu Sheng: "Then please try to summarize the reasons why the Qin Dynasty lost the world and we gained the world, and the reasons for the success and failure of various ancient dynasties."
In this way, Lu Sheng followed the order and briefly discussed the signs and reasons for the rise and fall of the country, writing a total of twelve articles.
Every time he finished writing a piece, he reported it to the emperor. Emperor Gao didn't fail to praise it, and all the ministers around him also cheered for him, calling his book "New Speech".
During the reign of Emperor Xiaohui, the Empress Dowager Lu was in power and wanted to make the Lu family kings. She was afraid of those eloquent ministers. Lu Sheng also knew that his strong arguments would not help, so he resigned and lived at home.
Because the land in Haochang was fertile, he settled here. Lu Sheng had five sons. He took out the bags and packages he received from his mission to South Vietnam and sold them for a thousand gold coins. He distributed them to his sons, each with two hundred gold coins, and let them engage in production.
Lu Sheng himself often traveled around in a carriage drawn by four horses, accompanied by ten attendants who sang, danced, and played music, drums, and harps, and wore a sword worth a hundred gold. He once said to his sons: I have made an agreement with you that when I pass by your house on a trip, I will make sure that my people are well fed and drunk, and I will try my best to meet everyone's requirements. Change one every ten days.
In whose house I die, the sword, chariot, chariot, and attendants will belong to whomever I die.


Chunk 9: 
original: 
一岁中往来过他客，率不过再三过，数见不鲜，无久慁公为也。
吕太后时，王诸吕，诸吕擅权，欲劫少主，危刘氏。
右丞相陈平患之，力不能争，恐祸及己，常燕居深念。
陆生往请，直入坐，而陈丞相方深念，不时见陆生。
陆生曰： 何念之深也？
陈平曰： 生揣我何念？
陆生曰： 足下位为上相，食三万户侯，可谓极富贵无欲矣。
然有忧念，不过患诸吕、少主耳。
陈平曰： 然。
为之柰何？ 陆生曰： 天下安，注意相；天下危，注意将。
将相和调，则士务附；士务附，天下虽有变，即权不分。
为社稷计，在两君掌握耳。
臣常欲谓太尉绛侯，绛侯与我戏，易吾言。
君何不交驩太尉，深相结？
translation: 
I also want to go to other friends, so I probably only go to each of your homes two or three times a year. It’s not new to see you all the time. I don’t need to be tired of you doing this all the time.
During the period when Empress Dowager Lu was in power, Zhu Lu was granted the title of king. Zhu Lu took over the power and wanted to kidnap the young master and seize the Liu family's world.
The right prime minister Chen Ping was very worried about this, but because he had limited power and could not forcefully fight, he was afraid of harming himself, so he often thought about it at home.
Once, Lu Sheng went to say hello and sat down next to Chen Ping. At this time, Chen Ping was deep in thought and did not immediately notice Lu Sheng's arrival.
Lu Sheng asked: Why are you so worried?
Chen Ping said: Guess, what am I worried about?
Lu Sheng said: "Your old gentleman is in the position of prime minister, and is a prince with thirty thousand households and households. It can be said that you are extremely rich and prosperous. It should be said that you have no desire in this regard."
However, if you are always worried, it is just because you are worried about Zhu Lu and your young master.
Chen Ping said: You guessed it right. What should you do about this?
Lu Sheng said: When the world is at peace, you should pay attention to the prime minister; when the world is in turmoil, you should pay attention to the generals.
If the generals and the prime minister cooperate tacitly, then the scholars will submit; if the scholars submit, then even if unexpected things happen in the world, the power of the country will not be scattered.
For the sake of the great cause of the country, you and Zhou Bo are in control of this matter.
I often wanted to explain these words to Taiwei Zhou Bo, but he always joked with me and didn't pay much attention to my words.
Why don't you make friends with Taiwei and establish a close relationship?


Chunk 10: 
original: 
为陈平画吕氏数事。
陈平用其计，乃以五百金为绛侯寿，厚具乐饮；太尉亦报如之。
此两人深相结，则吕氏谋益衰。
陈平乃以奴婢百人，车马五十乘，钱五百万，遗陆生为饮食费。
陆生以此游汉廷公卿间，名声藉甚。
及诛诸吕，立孝文帝，陆生颇有力焉。
孝文帝即位，欲使人之南越。
陈丞相等乃言陆生为太中大夫，往使尉他，令尉他去黄屋称制，令比诸侯，皆如意旨。
语在南越语中。陆生竟以寿终。
平原君硃建者，楚人也。
故尝为淮南王黥布相，有罪去，後复事黥布。
布欲反时，问平原君，平原君非之，布不听而听梁父侯，遂反。
汉已诛布，闻平原君谏不与谋，得不诛。
语在黥布语中。
平原君为人辩有口，刻廉刚直，家於长安。
translation: 
Then, Lu Sheng planned several ways for Chen Ping to deal with Lu.
Chen Ping used his strategy and gave 500 gold to Jianghou Zhou Bo to celebrate his birthday, and prepared a grand singing and dancing banquet to entertain him; Taiwei Zhou Bo also repaid Chen Ping in the same way.
In this way, Chen Ping and Zhou Bo established a very close relationship, and Lu's conspiracy to usurp power became even more difficult to realize.
Chen Ping also gave Lu Sheng 100 slaves, 50 chariots and horses, and 5 million yuan as food expenses.
Lu Sheng used these expenses to lobby among the ministers of the Han Dynasty, and became very famous.
After Zhu Lu was killed and Emperor Xiaowen ascended the throne, Lu Sheng contributed a lot to this.
After Emperor Xiaowen came to the throne, he wanted to send envoys to South Vietnam.
Prime Minister Chen Ping and others recommended Lu Sheng as the Taizhong doctor, sent him as an envoy to South Vietnam, and ordered the South Vietnamese king Wei to cancel the Yellow House title system and other Vietnamese rituals, and let him adopt the same etiquette and rituals as other princes.
After Lu Sheng went on his mission, he acted accordingly and the emperor's requirements were met, so Emperor Wen was very satisfied.
The specific plot of this matter is recorded in "Biographies of South Vietnam".
Lu Sheng finally died of old age. Pingyuan Marquis Zhu Jian was a native of Chu. At first, he served as the state minister of Huainan King Yingbu, but he left because of his guilt.
Later, he worked under Ying Bu again. When Ying Bu wanted to rebel, he asked Zhu Jian what he thought of the matter, and Zhu Jian strongly opposed it. But Yingbu did not listen to his advice, but did what Liang Fuhou said, so he rebelled.
After the Han Dynasty put down the rebellion and killed Yingbu, I heard that Zhu Jian, the king of Pingyuan, had advised Yingbu not to rebel. At the same time, he did not participate in the conspiracy of rebellion, so he did not kill Zhu Jian.
This matter is recorded in "The Biography of Qingbu".
Zhu Jian, Lord of Pingyuan, was eloquent and eloquent. At the same time, he was upright and adhered to the integrity and selfless integrity. Home is in Chang'an.


Chunk 11: 
original: 
行不苟合，义不取容。
辟阳侯行不正，得幸吕太后。
时辟阳侯欲知平原君，平原君不肯见。
及平原君母死，陆生素与平原君善，过之。
平原君家贫，未有以发丧，方假贷服具，陆生令平原君发丧。
陆生往见辟阳侯，贺曰： 平原君母死。
辟阳侯曰： 平原君母死，何乃贺我乎？
陆贾曰： 前日君侯欲知平原君，平原君义不知君，以其母故。
今其母死，君诚厚送丧，则彼为君死矣。
辟阳侯乃奉百金往税。
列侯贵人以辟阳侯故，往税凡五百金。
辟阳侯幸吕太后，人或毁辟阳侯於孝惠帝，孝惠帝大怒，下吏，欲诛之。
吕太后惭，不可以言。
translation: 
He never agrees casually with his words or deeds, adheres to moral principles and refuses to bend to please others.
Piyanghou Shenshi's behavior was not upright, and he won the favor of Empress Dowager Lu through flattery.
At that time, Marquis Piyang wanted to be on good terms with Lord Pingyuan, but Lord Pingyuan refused to see him.
When Pingyuanjun's mother passed away, Lu Sheng and Pingyuanjun had always been very close, so they went to express their condolences.
Mr. Pingyuan was from a poor family and did not even have the money to pay for his mother's funeral. He was about to borrow money to buy funeral supplies, but Lu Sheng told Mr. Pingyuan to just pay for the funeral without borrowing money.
Then Lu Sheng went to Piyanghou's home and congratulated him, saying: Pingyuanjun's mother passed away.
Marquis Piyang said in confusion: Mr. Pingyuan's mother is dead, why do you congratulate me?
Lu Sheng said: "You have always wanted to be on good terms with Mr. Pingyuan before, but he was a moral person and refused to associate with you. This was because of his mother."
Now that his mother has passed away, if you give him generous gifts for his mother's funeral, then he will definitely be willing to work desperately for you.
So Piyanghou sent a generous gift worth one hundred gold to Pingyuanjun.
At that time, many princes and nobles also sent money and goods worth a total of five hundred gold because of the heavy gifts given by the Marquis of Piyang.
Marquis Piyang was particularly favored by Empress Dowager Lu. Some people spoke ill of him in front of Emperor Xiaohui. Emperor Xiaohui was furious and arrested him and handed him over to the officials for interrogation, and wanted to take this opportunity to kill him.
Empress Dowager Lu felt ashamed and could not intercede for him.


Chunk 12: 
original: 
大臣多害辟阳侯行，欲遂诛之。
辟阳侯急，因使人欲见平原君。
平原君辞曰： 狱急，不敢见君。
乃求见孝惠幸臣闳籍孺，说之曰： 君所以得幸帝，天下莫不闻。
今辟阳侯幸太后而下吏，道路皆言君谗，欲杀之。
今日辟阳侯诛，旦日太后含怒，亦诛君。
何不肉袒为辟阳侯言於帝？
帝听君出辟阳侯，太后大驩。
两主共幸君，君贵富益倍矣。
於是闳籍孺大恐，从其计，言帝，果出辟阳侯。
辟阳侯之囚，欲见平原君，平原君不见辟阳侯，辟阳侯以为倍己，大怒。
及其成功出之，乃大惊。
吕太后崩，大臣诛诸吕，辟阳侯於诸吕至深，而卒不诛。
计画所以全者，皆陆生、平原君之力也。
孝文帝时，淮南厉王杀辟阳侯，以诸吕故。
文帝闻其客平原君为计策，使吏捕欲治。
闻吏至门，平原君欲自杀。诸子及吏皆曰： 事未可知，何早自杀为？
平原君曰： 我死祸绝，不及而身矣。
translation: 
Most of the ministers hated Piyanghou's scandalous behavior and wanted to take this opportunity to kill him.
Marquis Piyang was very anxious, so he sent someone to send a message to Lord Pingyuan, saying that he wanted to see him.
But Mr. Pingyuan declined and said: Your case is very tight now, and I dare not meet you.
Then Lord Pingyuan asked to see Hong Jiru, Emperor Xiaohui's favorite, and persuaded him: "Everyone in the world knows the reason why the emperor loves you."
Now the Marquis of Piyang is favored by the Queen Mother, but he is arrested and imprisoned. People all over the city say bad things about you and want to kill you.
If Marquis Piyang is killed by the emperor today, then the Queen Mother will get angry tomorrow morning and will kill you too.
Why don't you take off your shirt and go to the emperor to ask for a favor for Marquis Piyang?
If the emperor listens to your words and releases Piyanghou, the Queen Mother will definitely be very happy.
If both the Queen Mother and the Emperor dote on you, you will be doubly wealthy.
So Hong Jiru was very frightened, so he followed Lord Pingyuan's advice and interceded with the emperor to release Piyanghou. As expected, the emperor released Piyanghou.
When Piyanghou was imprisoned, he wanted to see Lord Pingyuan, but Lord Pingyuan refused to see Piyanghou. Piyanghou thought it was betraying him, so he was very angry with him.
He was particularly surprised when he was successfully rescued by Pingyuan Jun.
After the death of Queen Mother Lu, the ministers killed Zhu Lu. The relationship between Piyanghou and Zhu Lu was very close, but he was not killed in the end.
The plan to save Piyanghou's life was realized because of the power of Lu Sheng and Pingyuan Jun.
During the period of Emperor Xiaowen, King Li of Huainan killed Marquis Piyang because of his close relationship with Zhu Lu.
Emperor Wen also heard that many of Piyang Hou's affairs were planned by his retainer Pingyuan Jun, so he sent officials to arrest him and try to punish him.
When he heard that the officials had arrived at his door, Pingyuan Jun wanted to commit suicide. His sons and the officials who came to arrest him all said: It is not clear what the outcome of the matter is. Why did you commit suicide so early?
Lord Pingyuan said to his sons: After I die alone, the disaster to our family will be gone, and you will not be implicated.


Chunk 13: 
original: 
遂自刭。
孝文帝闻而惜之，曰： 吾无意杀之。
乃召其子，拜为中大夫。
使匈奴，单于无礼，乃骂单于，遂死匈奴中。
初，沛公引兵过陈留，郦生踵军门上谒曰： 高阳贱民郦食其，窃闻沛公暴露，将兵助楚讨不义，敬劳从者，原得望见，口画天下便事。
使者入通，沛公方洗，问使者曰： 何如人也？
使者对曰： 状貌类大儒，衣儒衣，冠侧注。
沛公曰： 为我谢之，言我方以天下为事，未暇见儒人也。
使者出谢曰： 沛公敬谢先生，方以天下为事，未暇见儒人也。
郦生瞋目案剑叱使者曰： 走！
复入言沛公，吾高阳酒徒也，非儒人也。
使者惧而失谒，跪拾谒，还走，复入报曰： 客，天下壮士也，叱臣，臣恐，至失谒。
曰 走！复入言，而公高阳酒徒也 。
沛公遽雪足杖矛曰： 延客入！ 郦生入，揖沛公曰： 足下甚苦，暴衣露冠，将兵助楚讨不义，足下何不自喜也？
臣原以事见，而曰 吾方以天下为事，未暇见儒人也 。
translation: 
In this way, he drew his sword and committed suicide.
Emperor Xiaowen was very sorry to hear this and said: I didn't mean to kill him.
In order to express comfort to his family, Emperor Wen summoned his son to the court and appointed him as Taizhong doctor.
Later, when he was sent as an envoy to the Xiongnu, he cursed the Chanyu because he was arrogant and rude, and died in the Xiongnu.
When Pei Gong led his troops through Chenliu, Li Sheng went to the military gate and handed over his business card and said: "The humble people of Gaoyang are hungry for food. I heard privately that Pei Gong was running around in the open air, working tirelessly and leading people to help the Chu army to conquer the tyrannical and unjust Qin Dynasty. I would like to ask you, my entourage, to go in and tell me that I want to see Pei Gong and talk to him about world affairs."
The envoy went in to report. While washing his feet, Pei Gong asked the envoy: What kind of person is this person?
The messenger replied: He looks like a learned boy, wearing the clothes of a scholar and a towering mountain crown on his head.
Pei Gong said: Please refuse him for me, saying that I am busy with the important affairs of peace in the world and have no time to see Confucian scholars.
The envoy came out to apologize and said: Mr. Pei Gong would like to thank you. He is busy with the great affairs of the world and has no time to meet with Confucian scholars.
After hearing this, Li Sheng's eyes widened, holding a sword, he scolded the messenger and said: Hurry up!
Go and tell Pei Gong again that I am a drunkard of Gaoyang, not a Confucian scholar.
When the messenger saw this, he was so frightened that he dropped his business card on the ground. Then he knelt down to pick it up, quickly turned around and ran in, and reported to Pei Gong again: The guest outside is truly a hero in the world.
Pei Gong immediately wiped his feet, held his spear in his hand and said: Invite the guests in!
After Li Sheng entered, he bowed to Pei Gong with equal etiquette and said: "Pei Gong, you have been working outside for many years with your clothes exposed. It is very hard. You led the troops and the Chu army to conquer the tyrannical and cruel Qin Dynasty, but Pei Gong, why don't you respect yourself at all?"
I wanted to see you on the pretext of discussing world affairs, but what did you say? I am busy trying to bring peace to the world and have no time to meet with Confucian scholars.


Chunk 14: 
original: 
夫足下欲兴天下之大事而成天下之大功，而以目皮相，恐失天下之能士。
且吾度足下之智不如吾，勇又不如吾。若欲就天下而不相见，窃为足下失之。
沛公谢曰： 乡者闻先生之容，今见先生之意矣。
乃延而坐之，问所以取天下者。
郦生曰： 夫足下欲成大功，不如止陈留。
陈留者，天下之据旻也，兵之会地也，积粟数千万石，城守甚坚。
臣素善其令，原为足下说之。
不听臣，臣请为足下杀之，而下陈留。
足下将陈留之众，据陈留之城，而食其积粟，招天下之从兵；从兵已成，足下横行天下，莫能有害足下者矣。
沛公曰： 敬闻命矣。
translation: 
You want to pacify the world and achieve the greatest achievements in the world, but if you look at people based on their appearance, you may lose those capable people in the world.
Besides, I think your intelligence is not as good as mine, and your bravery and strength are not as good as mine. If you want to achieve the great cause of pacifying the world and don't want to see me, I think you have lost a talent.
Pei Gong quickly apologized to him and said: I only heard about your appearance just now, but now I really understand your intentions.
So he asked him to take a seat and asked him about his clever strategies to pacify the world.
Li Sheng said: "Pei Gong, if you want to achieve the great goal of unifying the world, it is better to occupy Chenliu first."
Chenliu is a transportation hub that can be defended in all directions, and it is also a battleground for military strategists. There are tens of millions of stones of grain stored in the city, and the city walls are very fortified.
Chen Liu and I have always been very good at keeping orders. I want to go to you to persuade him to surrender to you.
If he doesn't listen to me, please allow me to kill him for you, and then take Chen Liu.
Pei Gong, you lead Chenliu's generals, occupy the fortified Chenliu city, eat Chenliu's stored grain, and gather people from all over the world who want to join you. When your army becomes stronger, you will be invincible and dominate the world, and no one will be able to pose a threat to you.
Pei Gong said: I completely obey your teachings.


Chunk 15: 
original: 
於是郦生乃夜见陈留令，说之曰： 夫秦为无道而天下畔之，今足下与天下从则可以成大功。今独为亡秦婴城而坚守，臣窃为足下危之。
陈留令曰： 秦法至重也，不可以妄言，妄言者无类，吾不可以应。
先生所以教臣者，非臣之意也，原勿复道。
郦生留宿卧，夜半时斩陈留令首，逾城而下报沛公。
沛公引兵攻城，县令首於长竿以示城上人，曰： 趣下，而令头已断矣！
今後下者必先斩之！
於是陈留人见令已死，遂相率而下沛公。
沛公舍陈留南城门上，因其库兵，食积粟，留出入三月，从兵以万数，遂入破秦。
太史公曰：世之传郦生书，多曰汉王已拔三秦，东击项籍而引军於巩洛之间，郦生被儒衣往说汉王。
乃非也。
自沛公未入关，与项羽别而至高阳，得郦生兄弟。
translation: 
So Li Sheng went to see Chen Liushou Ling that night and persuaded him: The Qin Dynasty was tyrannical and unjust and everyone in the world was against it. Now you can achieve great success by rebelling with the people in the world, but you are alone to defend the city of the Qin Dynasty that is about to perish. Privately, I am deeply worried about your dangerous situation.
Chen Liushou Ling said: The laws of the Qin Dynasty are strict and without punishment. You can't talk nonsense casually. If you do this, the clan will be exterminated. I can't do what you say.
What your old gentleman taught me was not my intention. Please stop saying it.
That night, Li Sheng stayed in the city to rest. At midnight, he quietly beheaded Chen Liushou Ling, jumped over the wall, and reported to Pei Gong.
Pei Gong led his troops to attack the city. He hung the head of the county magistrate on a flagpole and showed it to the people in the city, saying: Surrender quickly. We have chopped off the heads of you who were keeping the order!
Whoever surrenders later must be killed first!
At this time, Chen Liuren saw that Shou Ling was dead, so they surrendered to Pei Gong one after another.
After Pei Gong entered the city, he lived on the upper floor of Chenliu's south city gate. He used the weapons in Chenliu's arsenal and ate the food stored in the city. He stayed here for three months and raised tens of thousands of troops. Then he entered the pass to attack the Qin Dynasty.
Tai Shigong said: Most of the biographies about Li Sheng circulating in the world today say that after the King of Han pacified the Three Qin Dynasties, he returned to the east to attack Xiang Yu and led the army to move between Gong and Luo. Li Shengcai went to lobby the King of Han in Confucian clothes.
This statement is wrong.
The actual situation is that before Peigong invaded Hangu Pass, he separated from Xiang Yu and came to Gaoyang, where he acquired the two Lisheng brothers.


Chunk 16: 
original: 
余读陆生新语书十二篇，固当世之辩士。
至平原君子与余善，是以得具论之。
translation: 
I read twelve chapters of Lu Jia's "Xinyu", and I can see that he is truly a rare great debater in the contemporary era.
Mr. Pingyuan's son and I have a very good relationship, so I can record all the above in detail.


