Summary uses chunk [1, 5, 6, 12, 15]

Chunk 1: 
original: 
未可以儒生说也。
郦生曰： 弟言之。
骑士从容言如郦生所诫者。
沛公至高阳传舍，使人召郦生。
郦生至，入谒，沛公方倨床使两女子洗足，而见郦生。
郦生入，则长揖不拜，曰： 足下欲助秦攻诸侯乎？且欲率诸侯破秦也？
沛公骂曰： 竖儒！
夫天下同苦秦久矣，故诸侯相率而攻秦，何谓助秦攻诸侯乎？
郦生曰： 必聚徒合义兵诛无道秦，不宜倨见长者。
於是沛公辍洗，起摄衣，延郦生上坐，谢之。
郦生因言六国从横时。沛公喜，赐郦生食，问曰： 计将安出？
郦生曰： 足下起纠合之众，收散乱之兵，不满万人，欲以径入强秦，此所谓探虎口者也。
夫陈留，天下之旻，四通五达之郊也，今其城又多积粟。
臣善其令，请得使之，令下足下。
即不听，足下举兵攻之，臣为内应。
於是遣郦生行，沛公引兵随之，遂下陈留。号郦食其为广野君。
郦生言其弟郦商，使将数千人从沛公西南略地。
郦生常为说客，驰使诸侯。
translation: 
So you'd better not lobby him as a Confucian scholar.
Li Shiqi said: Just say it like I taught you.
After the knight returned, he told Pei Gong according to Li Sheng's instructions.
Later, Pei Gong came to Gaoyang, stayed in an inn, and sent someone to summon Li Shiqi to come and see him.
When Li Sheng came to the hotel, Pei Gong sat on the bed with his legs spread apart and asked two women to wash his feet. He called Li Sheng to see him.
Li Sheng went in, only made a long salute without leaning down to worship, and said: "Do you want to help Qin attack the princes, or do you want to lead the princes to destroy Qin?"
Pei Gong scolded: You Confucian scholar!
The people of the world have been suffering from the Qin Dynasty for a long time, so the princes have raised armies to resist the violent Qin one after another. How can you help the Qin Dynasty attack the princes?
Li Sheng said: If you are determined to gather the people and call for volunteers to overthrow the tyrannical and cruel Qin Dynasty, you should not receive the elders in such a arrogant and disrespectful manner.
So Pei Gong immediately stopped washing his feet, tidied his clothes, invited Li Sheng to the guest's seat, and apologized to him.
Li Sheng talked about the strategy used by the six kingdoms to unite vertically and horizontally. Pei Gong was very happy and ordered people to bring rice for Li Sheng to eat. Then he asked: "Then how do you think we should formulate our strategy today?"
Li Sheng said: If you gather the rabble and scattered soldiers, the total is less than 10,000 people. If you use this to directly confront the powerful Qin, it will be what people often say is exploring the tiger's mouth.
Chenliu is an important transportation thoroughfare in the world, extending in all directions. Now there is a lot of grain in the city.
I am very close to the magistrate of Chenliu. Please send me to him to ask him to surrender to you.
If he doesn't obey, you can send troops to attack the city again, and I can act as an internal response in the city.
So Pei Gong sent Li Sheng there and followed closely with his own troops. In this way, he captured Chenliu and gave Li Sheng the title of Lord of Guangye.
Li Sheng recommended his younger brother Li Shang to lead thousands of people to follow Pei Gong to the southwest to capture the city.
Li Sheng himself often served as a lobbyist and traveled among the princes as an envoy.

summary:
summary line 0: Li Shiqi, a learned man from Gaoyang, Chenliu, lived in poverty and worked as a lowly clerk. Despite his humble status, local elites dared not employ him casually, calling him "Kangsheng." During the rebellions against Qin, he avoided serving narrow-minded generals until he heard of Pei Gong (Liu Bang). Through a cavalryman, he arranged a meeting. When they met, Pei Gong was washing his feet with two women, but Li Shiqi criticized his disrespect, prompting Pei Gong to apologize. Li Shiqi advised capturing Chenliu for its strategic location and grain stores, offering to persuade the magistrate to surrender. Pei Gong agreed, and with Li Shiqi's help, Chenliu was taken. Li Shiqi was titled Lord of Guangye and later recommended his brother Li Shang to serve Pei Gong.

Chunk 5: 
original: 
田广以为然，乃听郦生，罢历下兵守战备，与郦生日纵酒。
淮阴侯闻郦生伏轼下齐七十馀城，乃夜度兵平原袭齐。
齐王田广闻汉兵至，以为郦生卖己，乃曰： 汝能止汉军，我活汝；不然，我将亨汝！
郦生曰： 举大事不细谨，盛德不辞让。
而公不为若更言！
齐王遂亨郦生，引兵东走。
汉十二年，曲周侯郦商以丞相将兵击黥布有功。
高祖举列侯功臣，思郦食其。
郦食其子疥数将兵，功未当侯，上以其父故，封疥为高梁侯。
後更食武遂，嗣三世。
元狩元年中，武遂侯平坐诈诏衡山王取百斤金，当弃市，病死，国除也。
translation: 
Tian Guang believed that Li Sheng's words were right, so he obeyed Li Sheng, removed all military defense and war preparations, and drank and had fun with Li Sheng every day.
Han Xin, the Marquis of Huaiyin, heard that Li Sheng had made a trip in the car without any effort, and had captured more than 70 cities in Qi State with his sharp tongue. He was very unconvinced, so he took advantage of the cover of night to lead his troops across the plains to secretly attack Qi State.
King Tian Guang of Qi heard that the Han soldiers had arrived and thought that Li Sheng had betrayed him, so he said to Li Sheng: If you can stop the Han army from attacking, I will let you live. If not, I will cook you to death!
Li Sheng said: People who do great things do not stick to trivial matters, and people with great virtues are not afraid of others' criticism.
Your father will not lobby Han Xin on your behalf!
In this way, the King of Qi killed Li Sheng and led his troops to escape eastward.
In the twelfth year of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, Li Shang, the Marquis of Quzhou, led troops to attack Yingbu in his capacity as prime minister.
When Emperor Gaozu was enfeoffing feudal princes and attacking his ministers, he missed Li Shiqi very much.
Li Shiqi's son Li Shi led troops to fight many times, but his military exploits did not reach the level of a marquis. The emperor made Li Shi a Marquis of Gaoliang because of his father.
Later, the place of residence was changed to Wusui, and the title was passed down to three generations.
In the first year of Yuanshou, Li Ping, Marquis of Wu Sui, defrauded King Hengshan of one hundred kilograms of gold by falsely claiming the emperor's order. The crime he committed should have been executed on the street, but at this time, he died of illness and the fiefdom was revoked.

summary:
summary line 1: During the Chu-Han conflict, Li Shiqi advised the King of Han to hold Aocang's grain and key fortresses instead of retreating. He then volunteered to persuade the King of Qi to submit to Han. The King of Han agreed. Li Shiqi convinced King Tian Guang of Qi that the world's hearts turned to Han due to Han's generosity and Xiang Yu's failures. Tian Guang surrendered and removed defenses. However, Han Xin, jealous of Li Shiqi's success, attacked Qi by night. Tian Guang, believing Li Shiqi betrayed him, threatened to boil him alive. Li Shiqi refused to lobby Han Xin and was executed. Later, Emperor Gaozu enfeoffed Li Shiqi's son as Marquis of Gaoliang, a title passed for three generations until it was revoked.

Chunk 6: 
original: 
陆贾者，楚人也。以客从高祖定天下，名为有口辩士，居左右，常使诸侯。
及高祖时，中国初定，尉他平南越，因王之。
高祖使陆贾赐尉他印为南越王。
陆生至，尉他魋结箕倨见陆生。
陆生因进说他曰： 足下中国人，亲戚昆弟坟在真定。
今足下反天性，弃冠带，欲以区区之越与天子抗衡为敌国，祸且及身矣。
且夫秦失其政，诸侯豪桀并起，唯汉王先入关，据咸阳。
项羽倍约，自立为西楚霸王，诸侯皆属，可谓至彊。
然汉王起巴蜀，鞭笞天下，劫略诸侯，遂诛项羽灭之。
五年之间，海内平定，此非人力，天之所建也。
天子闻君王王南越，不助天下诛暴逆，将相欲移兵而诛王，天子怜百姓新劳苦，故且休之，遣臣授君王印，剖符通使。
君王宜郊迎，北面称臣，乃欲以新造未集之越，屈彊於此。
汉诚闻之，掘烧王先人冢，夷灭宗族，使一偏将将十万众临越，则越杀王降汉，如反覆手耳。
translation: 
Lu Jia was a native of the Chu State. He followed Emperor Gaozu to pacify the world as a guest of staff. People at that time called him a very eloquent lobbyist, so he accompanied Emperor Gaozu and often traveled to various vassal states as envoys.
When Emperor Gaozu had just pacified the Central Plains, Wei Ta also pacified South Vietnam and established himself as king there.
Emperor Gaozu considered that the world had been settled for the first time, so he did not execute Wei Ta. He also sent Lu Jia with the seal of the King of South Vietnam given to Wei Ta to appoint him.
When Lu Sheng arrived in South Vietnam, he wore his hair in an awl-like bun popular in the area, sat with his legs spread like a dustpan, and met Lu Sheng.
Lu Sheng said to Wei Ta: You are from the Central Plains, and the graves of your relatives, brothers and ancestors are all in Zhending.
But now that you have gone against the customs of the Central Plains people, abandoned your clothes and scarves, and want to use Xiaonan, who has only a small place, to compete with the emperor and become an enemy country, then your disaster will be imminent.
Moreover, the Qin Dynasty was tyrannical and ruthless, and all the princes and heroes rose up one after another. Only the King of Han entered the pass first and occupied Xianyang.
Xiang Yu betrayed the alliance and established himself as the overlord of Western Chu. The princes all belonged to him, and he could be said to be extremely powerful.
But after the King of Han sent troops from Bashu, he conquered the world, pacified the princes, killed Xiang Yu, and destroyed Chu.
Within five years, the world was at peace. This is not something that humans can do, but is the result of God’s help.
Now the Emperor of the Han Dynasty has heard that you are proclaimed king in South Vietnam and is unwilling to help the people of the world to quell the rebellion. The generals and ministers of the Han Dynasty want to lead their troops to destroy you. But the emperor cherishes the people and thinks that they have just experienced the hardships and chaos of the war, so he temporarily stopped the army and sent me to grant you the gold seal of the King of Nanyue, cut the talisman into a letter, and exchange envoys.
You should go to the outskirts to welcome us, face the north, and prostrate yourself as my vassal, but you want to be arrogant and unruly as a small South Vietnam that has just been established and has not yet gathered the people.
If the imperial court finds out about this, digs and burns the tombs of your ancestors, exterminates your clan, and then sends a general to lead a hundred thousand troops to Vietnam, then the South Vietnamese will kill you and surrender to the Han Dynasty, as easy as turning the back of their hand.

summary:
summary line 2: Lu Jia, a Chu native and eloquent lobbyist, served Emperor Gaozu as an envoy. He was sent to appoint Wei Tuo as King of South Vietnam. Lu Jia criticized Wei Tuo's barbarian customs and warned that Han could destroy him. Wei Tuo apologized, acknowledged Han's superiority, and submitted. Lu Jia returned, was appointed Taizhong doctor, and wrote "New Speech" at the emperor's request, discussing statecraft. During Empress Dowager Lü's reign, he retired, distributed wealth to his sons, and traveled. He later advised Chancellor Chen Ping to ally with General Zhou Bo against the Lü clan, using gifts to secure their cooperation. After the Lü clan's fall, Lu Jia was sent to South Vietnam again, succeeding in enforcing Han rituals. He died of old age.

Chunk 12: 
original: 
大臣多害辟阳侯行，欲遂诛之。
辟阳侯急，因使人欲见平原君。
平原君辞曰： 狱急，不敢见君。
乃求见孝惠幸臣闳籍孺，说之曰： 君所以得幸帝，天下莫不闻。
今辟阳侯幸太后而下吏，道路皆言君谗，欲杀之。
今日辟阳侯诛，旦日太后含怒，亦诛君。
何不肉袒为辟阳侯言於帝？
帝听君出辟阳侯，太后大驩。
两主共幸君，君贵富益倍矣。
於是闳籍孺大恐，从其计，言帝，果出辟阳侯。
辟阳侯之囚，欲见平原君，平原君不见辟阳侯，辟阳侯以为倍己，大怒。
及其成功出之，乃大惊。
吕太后崩，大臣诛诸吕，辟阳侯於诸吕至深，而卒不诛。
计画所以全者，皆陆生、平原君之力也。
孝文帝时，淮南厉王杀辟阳侯，以诸吕故。
文帝闻其客平原君为计策，使吏捕欲治。
闻吏至门，平原君欲自杀。诸子及吏皆曰： 事未可知，何早自杀为？
平原君曰： 我死祸绝，不及而身矣。
translation: 
Most of the ministers hated Piyanghou's scandalous behavior and wanted to take this opportunity to kill him.
Marquis Piyang was very anxious, so he sent someone to send a message to Lord Pingyuan, saying that he wanted to see him.
But Mr. Pingyuan declined and said: Your case is very tight now, and I dare not meet you.
Then Lord Pingyuan asked to see Hong Jiru, Emperor Xiaohui's favorite, and persuaded him: "Everyone in the world knows the reason why the emperor loves you."
Now the Marquis of Piyang is favored by the Queen Mother, but he is arrested and imprisoned. People all over the city say bad things about you and want to kill you.
If Marquis Piyang is killed by the emperor today, then the Queen Mother will get angry tomorrow morning and will kill you too.
Why don't you take off your shirt and go to the emperor to ask for a favor for Marquis Piyang?
If the emperor listens to your words and releases Piyanghou, the Queen Mother will definitely be very happy.
If both the Queen Mother and the Emperor dote on you, you will be doubly wealthy.
So Hong Jiru was very frightened, so he followed Lord Pingyuan's advice and interceded with the emperor to release Piyanghou. As expected, the emperor released Piyanghou.
When Piyanghou was imprisoned, he wanted to see Lord Pingyuan, but Lord Pingyuan refused to see Piyanghou. Piyanghou thought it was betraying him, so he was very angry with him.
He was particularly surprised when he was successfully rescued by Pingyuan Jun.
After the death of Queen Mother Lu, the ministers killed Zhu Lu. The relationship between Piyanghou and Zhu Lu was very close, but he was not killed in the end.
The plan to save Piyanghou's life was realized because of the power of Lu Sheng and Pingyuan Jun.
During the period of Emperor Xiaowen, King Li of Huainan killed Marquis Piyang because of his close relationship with Zhu Lu.
Emperor Wen also heard that many of Piyang Hou's affairs were planned by his retainer Pingyuan Jun, so he sent officials to arrest him and try to punish him.
When he heard that the officials had arrived at his door, Pingyuan Jun wanted to commit suicide. His sons and the officials who came to arrest him all said: It is not clear what the outcome of the matter is. Why did you commit suicide so early?
Lord Pingyuan said to his sons: After I die alone, the disaster to our family will be gone, and you will not be implicated.

summary:
summary line 3: Pingyuanjun (Zhu Jian), a Chu native, served Yingbu but opposed his rebellion. After Yingbu's defeat, he was spared. He was upright, refusing to associate with the corrupt Piyanghou. When Pingyuanjun's mother died, Lu Jia advised Piyanghou to give generous funeral gifts, winning his favor. Later, when Piyanghou was imprisoned, Pingyuanjun persuaded the emperor's favorite Hong Jiru to intercede, securing his release. After Empress Dowager Lü's death, Pingyuanjun helped save Piyanghou again. Under Emperor Wen, Pingyuanjun was implicated in Piyanghou's crimes and committed suicide to protect his family. His son was appointed Taizhong doctor but died on a mission to the Xiongnu.

Chunk 15: 
original: 
於是郦生乃夜见陈留令，说之曰： 夫秦为无道而天下畔之，今足下与天下从则可以成大功。今独为亡秦婴城而坚守，臣窃为足下危之。
陈留令曰： 秦法至重也，不可以妄言，妄言者无类，吾不可以应。
先生所以教臣者，非臣之意也，原勿复道。
郦生留宿卧，夜半时斩陈留令首，逾城而下报沛公。
沛公引兵攻城，县令首於长竿以示城上人，曰： 趣下，而令头已断矣！
今後下者必先斩之！
於是陈留人见令已死，遂相率而下沛公。
沛公舍陈留南城门上，因其库兵，食积粟，留出入三月，从兵以万数，遂入破秦。
太史公曰：世之传郦生书，多曰汉王已拔三秦，东击项籍而引军於巩洛之间，郦生被儒衣往说汉王。
乃非也。
自沛公未入关，与项羽别而至高阳，得郦生兄弟。
translation: 
So Li Sheng went to see Chen Liushou Ling that night and persuaded him: The Qin Dynasty was tyrannical and unjust and everyone in the world was against it. Now you can achieve great success by rebelling with the people in the world, but you are alone to defend the city of the Qin Dynasty that is about to perish. Privately, I am deeply worried about your dangerous situation.
Chen Liushou Ling said: The laws of the Qin Dynasty are strict and without punishment. You can't talk nonsense casually. If you do this, the clan will be exterminated. I can't do what you say.
What your old gentleman taught me was not my intention. Please stop saying it.
That night, Li Sheng stayed in the city to rest. At midnight, he quietly beheaded Chen Liushou Ling, jumped over the wall, and reported to Pei Gong.
Pei Gong led his troops to attack the city. He hung the head of the county magistrate on a flagpole and showed it to the people in the city, saying: Surrender quickly. We have chopped off the heads of you who were keeping the order!
Whoever surrenders later must be killed first!
At this time, Chen Liuren saw that Shou Ling was dead, so they surrendered to Pei Gong one after another.
After Pei Gong entered the city, he lived on the upper floor of Chenliu's south city gate. He used the weapons in Chenliu's arsenal and ate the food stored in the city. He stayed here for three months and raised tens of thousands of troops. Then he entered the pass to attack the Qin Dynasty.
Tai Shigong said: Most of the biographies about Li Sheng circulating in the world today say that after the King of Han pacified the Three Qin Dynasties, he returned to the east to attack Xiang Yu and led the army to move between Gong and Luo. Li Shengcai went to lobby the King of Han in Confucian clothes.
This statement is wrong.
The actual situation is that before Peigong invaded Hangu Pass, he separated from Xiang Yu and came to Gaoyang, where he acquired the two Lisheng brothers.

summary:
summary line 4: An alternate account describes Li Shiqi's earlier meeting with Pei Gong, where he insisted on being called a "drunkard" rather than a scholar, criticized Pei Gong's disrespect, and again advised capturing Chenliu. He killed the magistrate at night, enabling Pei Gong to take the city and raise troops. Sima Qian notes that later accounts misplace Li Shiqi's role, but he confirms the details through his friendship with Pingyuanjun's son.

